<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="concept_wk5_lkc_bx">
 <title>Lesson Descriptions</title>
 <shortdesc>Lessons are sets of one or more course topics, delivered in online postings over the
    entire semester. While instructors are free to arrange lessons as they deem appropriate for
    their classes, the lessons provided here typically work well for this course and can serve as a
    starting point. At a minimum, you should ensure your lessons meet the lesson objectives
    specified here.</shortdesc>
 <conbody>
  <p>Each lesson includes a selected set of <xref
        href="../coursecomponents/course_components.dita#concept_j2p_2yp_rw">course
        components</xref> (objectives, topic lectures, assignments, quizzes, and other resources)
      that collectively teach one or more topics in the course.</p>
  <p>The frequency at which lessons are posted depends on whether the semester is a <xref
        href="../schedules/regular_semester.dita#concept_ilt_mjk_sw">regular semester</xref>, <xref
        href="../schedules/summer_session.dita#concept_r31_pjk_sw">summer session</xref>, or <xref
        href="../schedules/summer_session.dita#concept_r31_pjk_sw">winter session</xref>. For
      example, typically a regular semester has one lesson posted per week while the winter session
      has one lesson posted per weekday. Because the regular semester is comprised of 15 academic
      weeks, this course is comprised of 15 lessons. Refer to the <xref
        href="../quickrefs/quick_refs.dita#concept_umd_y1q_rw">quick reference schedules</xref> for
      specific schedules and additional guidelines for scheduling lessons based on the semester
        type.<note id="lesson_textbook">The corresponding <xref
          href="../coursecomponents/books_refs_textbooks.dita#concept_swp_bnq_dx">textbook</xref>
        readings and quizzes for lesson descriptions are from <cite>Practical Strategies for
          Technical Communication</cite> by Mike Markel. If you use a different textbook you will
        have to make the appropriate adjustments to the reading assignments.</note></p>
 </conbody>
</concept>
