<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE reference PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Reference//EN" "reference.dtd">
<reference id="reference_b5f_xg3_kx">
  <title>Lesson 1: Introduction, Correspondence, and Grammar</title>
  <shortdesc>Lesson 1 introduces students to the course, introduces basic concepts of technical
    writing, and teaches correspondence in professional environments.</shortdesc>
  <refbody>
    <simpletable frame="all" relcolwidth="1.0* 2.23*" id="simpletable_fc1_fq3_kx">
      <sthead>
        <stentry>Components</stentry>
        <stentry>Deliverables</stentry>
      </sthead>
      <strow>
        <stentry>Lesson Objectives</stentry>
        <stentry>
          <ul id="ul_b1f_1g2_sz">
            <li>Recognize what the course is about, how it is structured, and what contents are
              contained in its syllabus.</li>
            <li>Apply concepts of rhetorical situation.</li>
            <li>Discuss technical writing process and related genres.</li>
            <li>Examine the importance and shortcomings of writing skills of employees in the
              workplace.</li>
            <li>Employ concepts and structure of business letters, memos, and email correspondence
              in professional settings.</li>
            <li>Review grammar and punctuation as well as related self-study resources.</li>
          </ul>
        </stentry>
      </strow>
      <strow>
        <stentry>Reading/Quizzes</stentry>
        <stentry>
          <p><b>Chapter 1:</b> Introduction to Technical Communication</p>
          <p><b>Chapter 9:</b> Writing Correspondence<note>Because some students may add to the
              course late or might otherwise be delayed in obtaining the textbook, you should extend
              the deadlines for the chapter quizzes assigned with this lesson. For <xref
                href="../schedules/regular_semester.dita#concept_ilt_mjk_sw">regular
                semesters</xref> and <xref
                href="../schedules/summer_session.dita#concept_r31_pjk_sw">summer sessions</xref>,
              you should consider a deadline of Lesson 3 (one to two calendar weeks into the
              semester). For the <xref href="../schedules/winter_session.dita#concept_u5b_sjk_sw"
                >winter session</xref>, you should consider a deadline of Lesson 6 (one calendar
              week into the semester).</note></p>
          <p><b>Appendix B:</b> Editing and Proofreading Your Documents (no quiz since this appendix
            covers grammar and punctuation, for which there is an exam later in the semester)</p>
          <p><b>Website articles:</b> Latest research and articles on the Internet that focus on
            writing in the workplace (no quiz since this is preliminary reading to help students
            understand the importance of workplace writing for non-writers)</p>
        </stentry>
      </strow>
      <strow>
        <stentry>Topics</stentry>
        <stentry>
          <p><b>Course introduction:</b> An explanation of what the course is about, how the course
            is structured, and primary components of the syllabus</p>
          <p><b>Introduction to technical writing:</b> Introductory concepts of technical writing
            concepts including rhetorical situation, technical writing process, and technical
            writing genres</p>
          <p><b>Writing in the workplace:</b> Information on the importance and shortcomings of the
            writing skills of employees in the workplace</p>
          <p><b>Correspondence:</b> Concepts and structure of business letters, memos, and email
            correspondence in professional settings</p>
          <p><b>Start grammar and punctuation review:</b> Initial review of grammar and punctuation
            and introduction to self-study resources</p>
        </stentry>
      </strow>
      <strow>
        <stentry>Related Exercises</stentry>
        <stentry>
          <p><b>Due next lesson:</b>
            <xref href="../exercises/exercise_introduction.dita#concept_mrc_lwd_bx">Memo with
              self-introduction</xref></p>
          <p><b>Due next lesson:</b>
            <xref href="../exercises/exercise_claim_letter.dita#concept_avw_frr_bx">Business “claim”
              letter</xref><note>Because of the winter session's accelerated schedule, you should
              extend the deadlines for these first two exercises by one lesson during the winter
              session, giving students one additional day to finish the work.</note></p>
          <p><b>Due in 2-3 lessons:</b>
            <xref href="../exercises/exercise_grammar.dita#concept_f5y_mcs_bx">Grammar and
              punctuation worksheet</xref></p>
        </stentry>
      </strow>
      <strow>
        <stentry>Related Assignments</stentry>
        <stentry><b>Due in 3-4 lessons:</b>
          <xref href="../coursecomponents/tests_quizzes.dita#concept_ugm_5yp_rw">Grammar
            test(s)</xref></stentry>
      </strow>
    </simpletable>
  </refbody>
</reference>
