<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE reference PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Reference//EN" "reference.dtd">
<reference id="reference_pgw_gdj_kx">
  <title>Lesson 2: Collaboration, Descriptions, and Editing</title>
  <shortdesc>Lesson 2 has students start collaborating with workgroups, teaches definitions and
    descriptions, and introduces the copyedit and content review skills needed for forthcoming
    workshops.</shortdesc>
  <refbody>
    <simpletable frame="all" relcolwidth="1.0* 2.23*" id="simpletable_ykx_pdj_kx">
      <sthead>
        <stentry>Components</stentry>
        <stentry>Deliverables</stentry>
      </sthead>
      <strow>
        <stentry>Lesson Objectives</stentry>
        <stentry>
          <ul id="ul_bwr_ph2_sz">
            <li>Collaborate with teammates in preparation for group work throughout the
              semester.</li>
            <li>Identify strategies and online tools for collaborating on writing projects with a
              team.</li>
            <li>Employ concepts and structure of parenthetical, definition, and extended
              definitions.</li>
            <li>Employ concepts and structure of object, process, and mechanism descriptions.</li>
            <li>Identify editorial roles in the editing process, strategies for editing documents,
              and standard proofreading symbols.</li>
          </ul>
        </stentry>
      </strow>
      <strow>
        <stentry>Reading/Quizzes</stentry>
        <stentry>
          <p><b>Chapter 3:</b> Writing Collaboratively and Using Social Media</p>
          <p><b>Chapter 14:</b> Writing Definitions, Descriptions, and Instructions (pp.
            358–374)</p>
          <p>
            <note>Because some students may add to the course late or might otherwise be delayed in
              obtaining the textbook, you should extend the deadlines for the chapter quizzes
              assigned with this lesson. For <xref
                href="../schedules/regular_semester.dita#concept_ilt_mjk_sw">regular
                semesters</xref> and <xref
                href="../schedules/summer_session.dita#concept_r31_pjk_sw">summer sessions</xref>,
              you should consider a deadline of Lesson 3 (one to two weeks into the semester). For
              the <xref href="../schedules/winter_session.dita#concept_u5b_sjk_sw">winter
                session</xref>, you should consider a deadline of Lesson 6 (one week into the
              semester).</note>
          </p>
        </stentry>
      </strow>
      <strow>
        <stentry>Topics</stentry>
        <stentry>
          <p><b>Workgroups:</b> Assignment of students into workgroups for group work throughout the
            semester (requires that you first assign students into groups, preferably by related
            majors)</p>
          <p><b>Collaboration and social media:</b> Strategies and online tools for collaborating on
            writing projects with a team</p>
          <p><b>Definitions:</b> Concepts and structure of parenthetical, definition, and extended
            definitions</p>
          <p><b>Descriptions:</b> Concepts and structure of parenthetical, definition, and extended
            definitions</p>
          <p><b>Reviews and copyedits:</b> Roles in the editing process, strategies for editing
            documents, and standard proofreading symbols.</p>
        </stentry>
      </strow>
      <strow>
        <stentry>Related Exercises</stentry>
        <stentry><b>Due next lesson:</b>
          <xref href="../exercises/exercise_extended_definition.dita#concept_vvb_b5r_bx">Extended
            definition (group)</xref><note>Because of the winter session's accelerated schedule, you
            should extend this deadline by one lesson during the winter session, giving students one
            additional day to finish the work.</note></stentry>
      </strow>
      <strow>
        <stentry>Related Assignments</stentry>
        <stentry><b>Due next lesson:</b>
          <xref href="../assignments/workshop_description_doc.dita#concept_wl3_llq_fx"
            >Workshop</xref> draft of <xref
            href="../assignments/paper_description_doc.dita#concept_ffq_m3t_2x">description
            document</xref><p><b>Due in 2 lessons:</b> Group feedback to writers from description
            document workshop</p><p><b>Due in 3 lessons:</b> Final draft of description document</p><p>
            <note>Because of the winter session's accelerated schedule, you should extend these
              deadlines one lesson during the winter session, giving students one additional day to
              work on their papers and edits.</note>
          </p></stentry>
      </strow>
    </simpletable>
  </refbody>
</reference>
