<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="concept_xx2_llk_sw">
 <title>Holidays</title>
 <shortdesc>University holidays affect how you might post lessons during the semester.</shortdesc>
 <conbody>
    <section id="section_adv_2vd_lx">
      <title>Regular Semester Holidays</title>
      <p>University holidays during the <xref href="regular_semester.dita#concept_ilt_mjk_sw"
          >regular semester</xref> often fall on a Monday, making Tuesday the better day for posting
        weekly lessons. In general, if any lesson-posting day falls on a university holiday, the
        lesson should be posted the next day the university is open. No lessons are posted for
        week-long breaks such as Thanksgiving and spring break. Snow days are <b>not</b> university
        holidays, and lessons therefore should be posted even if the university closes for snow or
        other reasons.</p>
    </section>
    <section id="section_brn_hvd_lx">
      <title>Summer Session Holidays</title>
      <p>Typically, the only holiday to manage during the <xref
          href="summer_session.dita#concept_r31_pjk_sw">summer sessions</xref> is Memorial Day,
        which means simply not posting a lesson on that day. Fourth of July is usually between the
        two summer sessions and therefore does not pose a scheduling issue.</p>
    </section>
    <section id="section_xth_jvd_lx">
      <title>Winter Session Holidays</title>
      <p>The <xref href="winter_session.dita#concept_u5b_sjk_sw">winter session</xref> begins after
        Christmas, leaving New Year's Eve and New Year's Day as the only holidays to consider when
        posting lessons. Because of the condensed time period in the winter session, you should post
        a lesson on New Year's Eve (assuming it falls on a weekday), allowing you the flexibility to
        skip a posting on New Year's Day (recommended). If New Year's Day falls on a weekday and you
        skip posting a lesson, you may have to post a lesson on a Saturday to fit all 15 lessons
        into the semester. </p>
    </section>
 </conbody>
</concept>
