<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="concept_vnz_jwc_dx">
 <title>E-learning Development Programs</title>
 <shortdesc>E-learning development programs such as Adobe Captivate and Techsmith Camtasia allow
  instructors to build and deliver lesson modules in a multimedia format.</shortdesc>
 <conbody>
  <p>Although you will have textbooks, articles, and other reading material to assign as part of
   your class curriculum, students will expect a component that <xref
    href="../coursecomponents/lectures.dita#concept_vqp_xyp_rw">delivers lessons to them much like a
    lecture</xref> in a traditional face-to-face classroom. While you might share PDFs or links to
   online articles for students to read as part of a lesson, students will quickly become bored if
   all of their lessons consist of nothing but reading.</p>
  <p>An e-learning development program allows you to create tutorials and short lectures in which
   you deliver lesson components to students in a multimedia platform. For example, you might create
   an audio/video clip in which you talk to the student about a report type while showing an example
   of the report in the video. Such a clip might also include interaction with the student that has
   them, for example, answer a few quiz questions before continuing with the lesson. At a minimum,
   you can use e-learning development programs to create a screencast in which you speak while
   showing corresponding slides on the screen.<note type="important">When creating tutorial and
    lecture clips, be sure to account for students who have <xref
     href="../disabilities/accessibilty_disabilities.dita#concept_ulm_ywp_rw">disabilities or other
     accessibility concerns</xref>.</note></p>
  <p>Two common e-learning development programs are <xref
    href="http://www.adobe.com/products/captivate.html" format="html" scope="external">Adobe
    Captivate</xref> and <xref href="https://www.techsmith.com/camtasia.html" format="html"
    scope="external">Techsmith Camtasia</xref>. If you do not want to purchase your own copy of such
   a program, <xref href="../about/about_definitions.dita#concept_ldw_hrk_sw/termTLOS">TLOS</xref>
   has these tools installed on computers that are available for instructors to use. TLOS will also
   help you get started working with the tools and creating lessons. You can obtain more information
   about TLOS classes at <xref href="https://tlos.vt.edu/" format="html" scope="external"
    >https://tlos.vt.edu/</xref>. You can also access tutorials for working with these tools at
    <xref href="http://www.olcs.lt.vt.edu/lynda/" format="html" scope="external">Lynda.com</xref>
   (available to Virginia Tech faculty and students for free).</p>
 </conbody>
</concept>
