<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="concept_oqy_5xp_rw">
 <title>Learning Management System</title>
 <shortdesc>Virginia Tech uses and supports Canvas as its learning management system
  (LMS).</shortdesc>
 <conbody>
  <p>While traditional face-to-face classes also use an LMS to support class activities, an LMS is
   critical to the success of a virtual class. Without a well-structured and organized LMS, students
   would have a difficult time conducting studies and performing the required tasks for the course.
   The LMS functions as the repository and central access point for all of the <xref
    href="../coursecomponents/course_components.dita#concept_j2p_2yp_rw">course components</xref>.
   Students use the LMS to access all of the <xref
    href="../lessons/lesson_descriptions.dita#concept_wk5_lkc_bx">lessons</xref> and <xref
    href="../assignments/assignment_descriptions.dita#concept_rfl_wzp_rw">assignments</xref> that
   comprise the entire course.</p>
  <p>All instructors have an account in Canvas, which is Virginia Tech's supported LMS (<xref
    href="../about/contacts_roles.dita#reference_m1y_rkw_rw">contact</xref> the Director of
   Professional and Technical Writing if you do not have an account). You can access Canvas at <xref
    href="https://canvas.vt.edu/" format="html" scope="external">https://canvas.vt.edu/</xref>. </p>
  <p>Canvas automatically adds classes (called "courses" in Canvas) for the registered instructor to
   edit and publish. This initial course setup includes all of the students registered in the class
   roster. It is up to you to further develop the course and then publish it for students to access.
   Once you have a course set up in Canvas, you can re-use it for future classes.</p>
  <p>The Networked Learning Initiatives (NLI) at Virginia Tech offers classes on Canvas to help any
   instructor who is not familiar with the platform. You can view and register for these NLI classes
   at <xref href="https://app.nli.tlos.vt.edu/" format="html" scope="external"
    >https://app.nli.tlos.vt.edu/</xref>.</p>
 </conbody>
</concept>
