<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="concept_mnt_ndp_rw">
 <title>Learning Objectives</title>
 <shortdesc>Having successfully completed this course, students will be able to perform the
  technical writing tasks defined by the learning objectives for the course.</shortdesc>
 <conbody>
  <p>In designing a course curriculum and writing a course syllabus, you are free to customize
   learning objectives as you deem necessary for your classes. However, your objectives should
   support the following learning objectives from the formal course description:</p>
  <ul id="ul_xx2_c2p_rw">
   <li>Analyze the rhetorical situation and determine the appropriate audience or users of written communication, considering the needs of global audiences and people with disabilities.</li> 
   <li>Conduct research appropriate to workplace problem solving, such as literature review, evaluation of online resources, interview, and site inspection.</li> 
   <li>Interpret research findings with understanding of ethical and human implications.</li> 
   <li>Use conventions of various workplace genres, such as proposals, instructions, correspondence, reports, and slide decks, with understanding of how the genre conventions can be used as heuristics and as principles of arrangement.</li>
   <li>Collaborate with classmates in planning, researching, writing, revising, and presenting information.</li> 
   <li>Apply principles of effective visual design for print and electronic presentation, including
    hierarchical, chronological, and spatial arrangements.</li> 
   
  </ul>
 </conbody>
</concept>
