<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="concept_pfj_3cp_rw">
 <title>Course Registration Description</title>
 <shortdesc>The course registration description is the description students see when registering for
  a specific section of the course. Because it is unique to the section of the course being offered,
  it is typically provided by the instructor.</shortdesc>
 <conbody>
  <p>A good course registration description tells the student what the course encompasses, the types
   of projects they will work on, and the things they will learn. Some instructors provide a very
   brief description while other instructors provide a longer description, offering a glimpse at the
   instructor's personality.</p>
  
  <example>
   <title>Example Course Registration Description</title>
   <p>Technical writing encompasses a wide range of writing genres including reports, proposals,
    correspondence (memos and letters), user documentation (instructions), and many others. The
    distribution media for these documents are equally vast including print, email, web (including
    different device types), and more.</p>
   <p>This course will introduce you to these genres and distribution media and give you the
    opportunity to explore and write documents of different genres in a constructive environment.
    You will learn how to assess your audience, plan technical writing projects, research subject
    matter, structure and organize content, write document drafts, edit existing content, and
    prepare final documents.</p>
   <p>Classes will include a mixture of lecture, examples, workshops, and exercises to help you
    understand the craft and allow you to practice your newly acquired technical writing skills.
    Smaller exercises will help you build specific skills that you can directly apply to your larger
    writing projects, which will include writing technical documents of different genres.</p>
   <p>This is a writing-intensive course that will require you to write every day, but you will
    leave the course feeling confident in your writing skills and in your ability to write within
    technical and professional environments.</p>
  </example>
 </conbody>
</concept>
