<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="concept_ldw_hrk_sw">
 <title>Definitions</title>
 <shortdesc>This handbook uses terms that have specific meanings with regard to their
  use.</shortdesc>
 <conbody>
   <dl>
     <dlentry>
       <dt id="termCanvas">Canvas</dt>
       <dd>The <xref href="../resources/lms.dita#concept_oqy_5xp_rw">learning management system
            (LMS)</xref> in use at Virginia Tech.</dd>
     </dlentry>
   </dl>
   <dl>
   <dlentry>
    <dt id="termClass">class</dt>
    <dd>A specific instance of a <xref href="#concept_ldw_hrk_sw/termCourse" format="dita"
      >course</xref> section including all of its students.</dd>
   </dlentry>
  </dl>
  <dl>
   <dlentry>
    <dt id="termCourse">course</dt>
    <dd>The entire ENGL 3764: Technical Writing offering, which consists of scheduled <xref
      href="#concept_ldw_hrk_sw/termLesson" format="dita">lessons</xref> to be delivered in an
     online format over the duration of a <xref
      href="../schedules/course_schedules.dita#concept_ar5_n1q_rw">scheduled semester</xref>.</dd>
   </dlentry>
  </dl>
  <dl>
   <dlentry>
    <dt id="termCourseNumberName">ENGL 3764: Technical Writing</dt>
    <dd>The official catalog number and name of this <xref href="#concept_ldw_hrk_sw/termCourse"
      format="dita">course</xref>. The virtual classroom offering uses the same course number and
     name as the traditional face-to-face offering of the course.</dd>
   </dlentry>
  </dl>
  <dl>
   <dlentry>
    <dt id="termInstructor">instructor</dt>
    <dd>The professor, instructor, graduate teaching assistant (GTA), or any other person teaching a
            <xref href="#concept_ldw_hrk_sw/termClass" format="dita">class</xref>. In this handbook,
          "instructor" does not refer to the instructor faculty rank at Virginia Tech.</dd>
   </dlentry>
  </dl>
  <dl>
   <dlentry>
    <dt id="termLMS">learning management system (LMS)</dt>
    <dd>The primary online platform for managing the entire virtual <xref
            href="#concept_ldw_hrk_sw/termClass" format="dita">class</xref>. Currently, Virginia
          Tech uses and supports <xref href="#concept_ldw_hrk_sw/termCanvas" format="dita"
            >Canvas</xref> as an <xref href="../resources/lms.dita#concept_oqy_5xp_rw"
          >LMS</xref>.</dd>
   </dlentry>
  </dl>
  <dl>
   <dlentry>
    <dt id="termLesson">lesson</dt>
    <dd>The delivery of one or more <xref href="#concept_ldw_hrk_sw/termTopic" format="dita"
            >topics</xref>, delivered in online postings over the entire semester. The number of
            <xref href="../lessons/lesson_descriptions.dita#concept_wk5_lkc_bx">lessons</xref> per
          semester depends on whether the semester is a <xref
            href="../schedules/regular_semester.dita#concept_ilt_mjk_sw">regular semester</xref>,
            <xref href="../schedules/summer_session.dita#concept_r31_pjk_sw">summer session</xref>,
          or <xref href="../schedules/winter_session.dita#concept_u5b_sjk_sw">winter session</xref>.
          For example, typically a regular semester has one lesson posted per week while the winter
          session has one lesson posted per weekday.</dd>
    </dlentry>
  </dl>
   <dl>
     <dlentry>
       <dt id="termModule">module</dt>
       <dd>The online mechanism in <xref href="#concept_ldw_hrk_sw/termCanvas" format="dita"
            >Canvas</xref> that allows you to organize and deliver <xref
            href="#concept_ldw_hrk_sw/termLesson" format="dita">lessons</xref>.</dd>
     </dlentry>
   </dl>
   <dl>
     <dlentry>
       <dt id="termTLOS">Technology-enhanced Learning and Online Strategies (TLOS)</dt>
       <dd>A Virginia Tech organization that provides training and resources for faculty and
          students engaged in technology-based activities. They are a resource that can help in your
          online teaching efforts. You can obtain more information about TLOS at <xref
            href="https://tlos.vt.edu/" format="html" scope="external"
          >https://tlos.vt.edu/</xref>.</dd>
     </dlentry>
   </dl>
   <dl>
   <dlentry>
    <dt id="termTopic">topic</dt>
    <dd>A specific subject taught within the <xref href="#concept_ldw_hrk_sw/termCourse"
            format="dita">course</xref>. One or more topics could be covered in the same <xref
            href="#concept_ldw_hrk_sw/termLesson" format="dita">lesson</xref>. For example,
          proposals and recommendation reports are two separate topics; however, both could be
          presented in the same lesson depending on the class schedule.</dd>
   </dlentry>
  </dl>
 </conbody>
</concept>
