<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="concept_ffq_m3t_2x">
 <title>Description Document</title>
 <shortdesc>This paper has students write an object, mechanism, or process description document that
  covers a topic from the student's academic discipline.</shortdesc>
 <conbody>
  <p><b>Purpose:</b> Have students demonstrate what they have learned about the technical writing
   process, technical writing style and grammar, and the description genre by writing a graded paper
   based on the description genre. Suggested as the first graded paper of the course, this
   assignment also gives students a chance to get comfortable with your style of grading and
   feedback.</p>
  <p><b>Summary:</b> Students must write an object, mechanism, or process description document on a
   topic that is directly related to their academic discipline (major or minor). Students should
   also include a cover page (technically not part of the description document itself) to clarify
   their academic discipline, explain why their chosen topic is related to their discipline, and
   demonstrate that they are thinking about audience and purpose. If your course includes <xref
    href="assignment_descriptions_workshops.dita#concept_db4_h2r_dx">workshops</xref>, this paper is
   also a good assignment to use as the students' <xref
    href="workshop_description_doc.dita#concept_wl3_llq_fx">first workshop</xref> (the example
   assignment description below assumes this paper is used in a workshop). To help students
   understand the assignment's expectations, you should have one or more examples of a description
   document posted with the assignment page (the example assignment description below assumes you
   have posted examples). </p>
  <p><b>Corresponding Lesson Topic:</b> Definitions and descriptions.</p>
  <p><b>Grading Guidelines:</b> The paper should have a professional description document that
   reflects concepts from the textbook as well as lectures you have provided so far. The content
   should be clear, concise, and grammatically correct and should be understandable for the intended
   audience. The cover page should explain the students major, demonstrate their consideration of
   audience and purpose, and show that the description document does in fact relate to their
   academic discipline.</p>
  <example>
   <title>Description for Students</title>
   <p><b>Remember:</b> This assignment page is for your final paper submission. You must also have a
    workshop draft completed sooner, in time for the corresponding workshop. Refer to the separate
    assignment page for <b>Workshop: Description Document</b>.</p>
   <p>Write a description of an object, mechanism, or process. The specific subject matter of the
    description is up to you; however, it must be <b>directly related to your academic
     discipline</b>.</p>
   <p><b>Note:</b> When conducting research on the Internet, it's easy to be tempted to copy
    material as it exists on websites. Resist any such temptation to copy content from the Internet.
    Researching material on the Internet is completely acceptable (and encouraged); however, content
    you submit for assignments must be completely original.</p>
   <p><b>Requirements</b></p>
   <p>
    <ul id="ul_rj3_3pt_2x">
     <li>Post the final document here as a <b>PDF</b> file. Employers and clients will typically
      expect deliverables to be submitted in a format that they prefer. So it's good to get used to
      submitting to a defined standard. If you submit the document as a Word file or any format
      other than PDF, I will deduct points and ask you to resubmit.</li>
     <li>Include a <b>cover page</b> before the description document. The cover page can be any
      format, but see the related section below for specific details.</li>
     <li>As mentioned above, the topic must be directly related to your academic discipline. If your
      topic is not directly related to your academic discipline, I will ask you to rewrite a new
      paper, reduce your grade for not following the assignment requirements, or both.</li>
     <li>Focus on the grammar, writing style, and consistency like we covered in the initial
      classes. This will be part of your grade.</li>
     <li>Though illustrations are not required for this paper, a picture is worth a thousand words.
      Include a graphic if you think it will support your description. But, if the illustration is
      not your own, be sure you have permission to reuse it and that you cite the source.</li>
     <li>This list does not include an explanation of the content you should include or how you
      should include it in the document. That's what our reading assignments and class lessons are
      for. The objective here is to apply what you have learned about the genre.</li>
    </ul>
   </p>
   <p><b>Cover Page</b></p>
   <p>
    <ul id="ul_qjr_vpt_2x">
     <li>Include a cover page before the description document. There is no prescribed format for the
      cover page. However, it must be well written like any other content you submit in this
      course.</li>
     <li>The cover page must include the following information:<ul id="ul_rjr_vpt_2x">
       <li>Your name</li>
       <li>Your academic major (or minor, if your description document is related to your minor
        instead of major)</li>
       <li>The type of description document you’re writing (object, mechanism, or process)</li>
       <li>One or two brief sentences that explain how your selected topic relates to your academic
        discipline and why you chose this specific topic</li>
       <li>One or two brief sentences explaining who your audience is (who do you picture reading
        this) and your goal for the audience (what you’re hoping the audience will get from it)</li>
      </ul></li>
     <li>Don’t think of the cover page as part of the description document (even though you will
      include it as the first page in your file). If your description document has page numbers, do
      not include the cover page as page 1 (the first page of your description document would be
      page 1). As mentioned above, there is no format requirement for the cover page. However, as
      described below, the description document itself should be formatted like a professional
      document.</li>
    </ul>
   </p>
   <p><b>Description Document Guidelines</b></p>
   <ul id="ul_hw5_2qt_2x">
    <li>The description document should be approximately 400 to 700 efficient words (<b>excluding
      the cover page</b>), depending on how illustrative you make it. I say “efficient” words
     because technical writing should be as concise as possible. The goal is great content, not
     number of words. Page count is not really a good measure because formatting, white space,
     illustrations, and other factors influence page count as much as words do.</li>
    <li>After you write the document, be sure to revise it, edit it, re-edit it, and re-edit it
     again. If I see a simple typo, it probably means you didn't spend much time editing the
     document. <b>Here's a great tip:</b> Read the finished document out loud as if you were reading
     it to an audience; any typos or errors will become very obvious to you.</li>
   </ul>
   <ul id="ul_iw5_2qt_2x">
    <li>Look at the content and examples in the textbook. Also look at the sample PDFs of previous
     description documents that are attached to this assignment. Keep in mind that the intent with
     providing examples is not for you to simply copy and replace your own text. It’s to give you a
     feel for how other people approach writing this genre. <b>DO NOT</b> use the attached samples
     as an exact format for your own document. What these samples do not show is any specific
     feedback I might have provided for errors in format, design, or writing. If you simply copy the
     format of these samples, you may be copying an error that I suggested the author fix. Again,
     the samples are strictly to provide an idea for how others approached the paper.</li>
   </ul>
   <ul id="ul_jw5_2qt_2x">
    <li>Remember your audience. If you are writing about something very technical, you will have to
     find a way to simplify it so your audience understands the content.</li>
    <li>Make it inviting and interesting to look at. This should be something that invites readers
     in and holds their attention. Notice that the examples in the textbook are not written like a
     college essay. They are designed to engage the reader and hold their interest.</li>
   </ul>
  </example>
 </conbody>
</concept>
