<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="concept_wym_pc1_fx">
 <title>Instruction Set</title>
 <shortdesc>This paper has students write an instruction set that contains a conceptual topic and
  several related task topics.</shortdesc>
 <conbody>
  <p><b>Purpose:</b> Have students demonstrate what they have learned about the technical writing
   process, technical writing style and grammar, and the instructions genre by writing a graded
   paper based on the instructions genre.</p>
  <p><b>Summary:</b> Students must write an instruction set that includes a conceptual overview and
   several procedures for related tasks. Preferably, the topic would be directly related to their
   academic discipline (major or minor); however, any topic would work as long as students are
   forced to think about the audience as a layperson and the structure of corresponding
   instructions. For example, students could write product instructions or a standard operating
   procedure (SOP). If your course includes <xref
    href="assignment_descriptions_workshops.dita#concept_db4_h2r_dx">workshops</xref>, this paper is
   also a good assignment to use as <xref href="workshop_instructions.dita#concept_mcp_tlq_fx">one
    of the workshops</xref> (the example assignment description below assumes this paper is used in
   a workshop). To help students understand the assignment's expectations, you should have one or
   more examples of an instruction set posted with the assignment page (the example assignment
   description below assumes you have posted examples). </p>
  <p><b>Corresponding Lesson Topic:</b> Instructions.</p>
  <p><b>Grading Guidelines:</b> The paper should have a professional set of instructions that
   reflects concepts from the textbook and lectures on the genre. The content should be clear,
   concise, and grammatically correct and should be understandable for the intended audience. The
   conceptual topic should be written as a concept (like a description), and the task topics should
   include steps that are clear, direct, numbered, and in the imperative mood. There should be no
   more than 7 +/- 2 steps per task, and each step should have no more than one specific action. The
   steps should work correctly and not make any assumption that the audience has ever tied a
   shoelace before.</p>
  <example><title>Description for Students</title><p><b>Remember:</b> This assignment page is for
    your final paper submission. You must also have a workshop draft completed sooner, in time for
    the corresponding workshop. Refer to the separate assignment page for <b>Workshop: Instruction
     Set</b>.</p><p>Write an instruction set on how to perform a specific set of tasks. The
    instruction set will include one conceptual topic (“about” the tasks being documented, much like
    a description) and three or four tasks (“step-by-step procedures” the audience would perform).
    The subject matter of the instruction set is up to you (preferably from your academic
    discipline), but the entire set (conceptual information and procedures) must be related.</p>Try
   to keep the document focused so that you are not all over the place with information. For
   example, if you were writing an instruction set for cleaning a pool, you would not want to write
   conceptual information about the cost of installing a pool because it would not be related to the
   procedures. Similarly, you would not want one of your procedures to be about how to fix the
   diving board because it would not be related to cleaning the pool. Instead, you might write
   conceptual information about why pools are cleaned, how geographic location may affect pool
   cleaning practices, or about the equipment used in the pool-cleaning procedures. Then the
   step-by-step procedures might explain how to vacuum to pool, clean the pool walls, and clean the
   slide. (You cannot use pool cleaning as your topic.)<p><b>Note:</b> When conducting research on
    the Internet, it's easy to be tempted to copy material as it exists on websites. Resist any such
    temptation to copy content from the Internet. Researching material on the Internet is completely
    acceptable (and encouraged); however, content you submit for assignments must be completely
    original.</p><p><b>Requirements</b></p><p>
    <ul id="ul_rj3_3pt_2x">
     <li>Post the final document here as a <b>PDF</b> file. Employers and clients will typically
      expect deliverables to be submitted in a format that they prefer. So it's good to get used to
      submitting to a defined standard. If you submit the document as a Word file or any format
      other than PDF, I will deduct points and ask you to resubmit.</li>
     <li>Your document must have one conceptual topic and three or four procedural topics.</li>
     <li>Focus on the grammar, writing style, and consistency like we covered in the initial
      classes. Also, use the correct format, style, and grammar for writing instructions as covered
      in the lesson on instructions. This will all be part of your grade.</li>
     <li>Though illustrations are not required for this paper, a picture is worth a thousand words.
      Include a graphic if you think it will support your description. But, if the illustration is
      not your own, be sure you have permission to reuse it and that you cite the source. Most
      importantly, be sure the illustrations are relevant to the instructions. In our pool-cleaning
      example, you would not have a picture of a pool simply to decorate the document because this
      would be meaningless to the audience. Instead, you might have an illustration in the vacuuming
      section that shows an actual pool vacuum in action.</li>
     <li>This list does not include an explanation of the content you should include or how you
      should include it in the document. That's what our reading assignments and class lessons are
      for. The objective here is to apply what you have learned about the genre.</li>
    </ul>
   </p><p><b>Instruction Set Guidelines</b></p><ul id="ul_hw5_2qt_2x">
    <li>The description document should be approximately 500 to 700 efficient words. I say
     “efficient” words because technical writing should be as concise as possible. The goal is great
     content, not number of words. Page count is not really a good measure because formatting, white
     space, illustrations, and other factors influence page count as much as words do.</li>
    <li>Remember what we covered in the lesson. One set of procedures should have no more than 7-9
     steps, and those steps should be in the imperative mood.</li>
    <li>Use clear and consistent headings to identify each section of your document.</li>
    <li>After you write the document, be sure to revise it, edit it, re-edit it, and re-edit it
     again. If I see a simple typo, it probably means you didn't spend much time editing the
     document. <b>Here's a great tip:</b> Read the finished document out loud as if you were reading
     it to an audience; any typos or errors will become very obvious to you.</li>
   </ul><ul id="ul_iw5_2qt_2x">
    <li>Look at the content and discussion of examples in the textbook. Also look at the sample PDFs
     of previous instruction sets that are attached to this assignment. Keep in mind that the intent
     with providing examples is not for you to simply copy and replace your own text. It’s to give
     you a feel for how other people approach writing this genre. <b>DO NOT</b> use the attached
     samples as an exact format for your own document. What these samples do not show is any
     specific feedback I might have provided for errors in format, design, or writing. If you simply
     copy the format of these samples, you may be copying an error that I suggested the author fix.
     Again, the samples are strictly to provide an idea for how others approached the paper.</li>
   </ul><ul id="ul_jw5_2qt_2x">
    <li>Remember your audience (the intended person who would follow the procedures). If you are
     writing about something very technical, you will have to find a way to simplify it so your
     audience understands the content.</li>
    <li>Make it inviting and interesting to look at. This should be something that invites readers
     in and holds their attention. Notice that the examples in the textbook are not written like a
     college essay. They are designed to engage the reader and hold their interest.</li>
   </ul></example>
 </conbody>
</concept>
