<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="concept_vdv_zkq_fx">
 <title>White Paper Presentation</title>
 <shortdesc>This oral presentation has students prepare a video or other digital medium to deliver a
  presentation on the central topic of their white paper project.</shortdesc>
 <conbody>
  <p><b>Purpose:</b> Have students demonstrate what they have learned about presenting information
   orally by digitally recording and posting a video or similar digital presentation for all
   students to view.</p>
  <p><b>Summary:</b> Students must create and post a digitally recorded presentation in which they
   discuss the concepts from their <xref href="project_white_paper.dita#concept_lw3_ddq_fx">white
    paper project</xref> and attempt to persuade the audience toward an action related to the topic.
   Depending on the content available in the <xref
    href="../coursecomponents/books_refs_textbooks.dita#concept_swp_bnq_dx">textbook</xref> (for
   example, the Mike Markel textbook does not cover how to generate digital media in his content on
   oral presentations), you may have to provide a more detailed assignment description for students.
   To help students understand the assignment's expectations, you should have one or more examples
   of a recorded presentation posted with the assignment page (the example assignment description
   below assumes you have posted examples).</p>
  <p><b>Corresponding Lesson Topics:</b> Oral presentations, white papers; online content. </p>
  <p><b>Grading Guidelines:</b> The presentation should be professional in both format and tone and
   should both teach the audience about the subject matter in the student's white paper project. The
   digital recording must be functional and available on the Internet for other students to
   view.</p>
  <example>
   <title>Description for Students</title>
   <p>Create a digitally recorded presentation in which you discuss the concepts from your white
    paper project, and post it to YouTube, Vimeo, or similar website to share with the class (where
    you host it is up to you as long as the rest of the class can access it).</p>
   <p><b>Requirements</b></p>
   <p>
    <ul id="ul_rj3_3pt_2x">
     <li>Post the final presentation here, as you do for all assignments.</li>
     <li>As mentioned above, you must also post the presentation to YouTube, Vimeo, or similar
      website to share with the class. Where you host it is up to you as long as the rest of the
      class can access it.</li>
     <li>The topic will be the same topic from your white paper project.</li>
    </ul>
   </p>
   <p><b>Presentation Guidelines</b></p>
   <ul id="ul_hw5_2qt_2x">
    <li>The presentation should be approximately 3 to 5 minutes.</li>
    <li>Explain the main concepts from your white paper, and attempt to persuade the audience toward
     an action related to the topic. This is the same information from your white paper
     project.</li>
    <li>The presentation can be a combination of desktop slides with shots of you as the presenter,
     just the slides with your narration, or just you showing the slides on a background or other
     forms of visuals. How you present the content is really up to you.</li>
    <li>You should not just read directly from the slides. Instead, be engaging and provide
     additional information. Your objective is to teach your audience about the topic and persuade
     them toward your idea, so you need to sound and look interested and interesting.</li>
    <li>Speak clearly and confidently, as if you were speaking to a live audience.</li>
    <li>Have a healthy balance of text and visuals (images and video).</li>
    <li>Don't forget standard writing concepts when writing text to include in the presentation.
     Your presentation must use correct grammar and be free of typographical errors.</li>
   </ul>
   <p><b>Technical Considerations</b><ul id="ul_c45_xgx_1y">
     <li><b>For Mac users:</b> You can use QuickTime, which comes with your computer. Most mobile
      phones contain appropriate software as well.</li>
     <li><b>For Windows users:</b> There is a camera app for Windows 8. You can also use your
      phone.</li>
     <li> If you use your phone to record video, use a tripod to avoid shaky videos, and test the
      sound to be sure the audience can hear you.</li>
     <li>You can edit your video in a tool like iMovie or Windows Movie Maker. For PC users,
      Blueberry FlashBack Express is a free demo/tutorial software that you can download at
      http://www.bbsoftware.co.uk/BBFlashBack_FreePlayer.aspx.</li>
     <li>Camtasia is not free; however, students can get it at a discount price at Software
      Distribution. You can also use Camtasia in InnovationSpace (1140 Torgersen) for free.</li>
     <li>If you want to use screen captures, Jing is a free option. You can download it at
      http://www.techsmith.com/jing.html.</li>
     <li>Upload your video to YouTube or Vimeo and post your link in the appropriate discussions
      topic in Canvas.</li>
    </ul></p>
  </example>
 </conbody>
</concept>
