<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="concept_lw3_ddq_fx">
 <title>White Paper</title>
 <shortdesc>This project has students research and write a professional-grade white paper that
  reflects all major concepts covered in the course.</shortdesc>
 <conbody>
  <p><b>Purpose:</b> Have students demonstrate what they have learned about the major concepts
   covered in the course by researching a selected topic and writing a graded white paper.</p>
  <p><b>Summary:</b> Students must research a selected topic and write a professional grade white
   paper that teaches the audience about the topic and persuades them toward an action related to
   the topic. This is the same topic that students identified in their <xref
    href="../exercises/exercise_letter_project_understanding_white_paper.dita#concept_n2v_4jz_bx"
    >letter of project understanding exercise</xref>. Depending on the content available in the
    <xref href="../coursecomponents/books_refs_textbooks.dita#concept_swp_bnq_dx">textbook</xref>
   (for example, the Mike Markel textbook does not cover white papers), you may have to provide a
   more detailed assignment description for students. The example below reminds students about the
   concepts they should consider while writing the white paper. This project could be paired with an
    <xref href="presentation_white_paper_topic.dita#concept_vdv_zkq_fx">oral presentation
    assignment</xref>, in which students create a video (or similar presentation) of them presenting
   the concepts from the white paper and attempting to persuade the audience toward an action
   related to the topic. If your course includes <xref
    href="assignment_descriptions_workshops.dita#concept_db4_h2r_dx">workshops</xref>, this project
   is also a good assignment to use as <xref href="workshop_white_paper.dita#concept_mx4_ylq_fx">one
    of the workshops</xref> (the example assignment description below assumes this project is used
   in a workshop). To help students understand the assignment's expectations, you should have one or
   more examples of a white paper posted with the assignment page (the example assignment
   description below assumes you have posted examples).<note type="tip">Historically, students often
    select topics that can be common and overused. You should include a list of "banned topics" to
    force students to find topics that are more original. The example below includes a list of
    common topics that should be banned.</note></p>
  <p><b>Corresponding Lesson Topics:</b> White papers; graphical aids; page layout and visual
   design. However, this project is the culmination of the course and thus draws on most of the
   lessons. </p>
  <p><b>Grading Guidelines:</b> The paper should be professional in both document format and content
   tone and should both teach the audience about the topic and persuade them toward some action
   related to the topic. Research for the paper must be thorough and accurate. Content should be
   clear, concise, and grammatically correct and should be understandable for the intended
   audience.</p>
  <example><title>Description for Students</title><p><b>Remember:</b> This assignment page is for
    your final project submission. You must also have a workshop draft completed sooner, in time for
    the corresponding workshop. Refer to the separate assignment page for <b>Workshop: White
     Paper</b>.</p><p>Research and write a professional-grade white paper. In it, follow the
    standard formula of teaching the audience about the underlying subject matter and then subtly
    integrating the action you are trying to persuade the audience to take. The subject matter of
    the white paper is up to you, preferably something about which you are passionate or otherwise
    have a lot of knowledge.</p><p>For example, perhaps you are interested in persuading prospective
    pet owners to adopt instead of buy (do not actually use this as the topic). You would start by
    teaching the audience about the differences between adopting and buying, the pros and cons of
    each, how one buys a pet, and how one adopts a pet. You would probably introduce statistics on
    sheltered animals and adoption success stories. Finally, you would explain to them that the
    local shelter has some wonderful pets ready for adoption today (in an informative and
    educational tone).</p><p>Sometimes the white paper is not this obvious. It might, for example,
   teach the audience about a specific subject matter and then include a subtle section about the
   author or company who wrote the white paper. This “about” section will show the audience that the
   author is an expert in the subject matter, and thus persuade the audience to consider purchasing
   the author’s product or solution. Note that, while some white papers have an “About the Author”
   section, this is not a requirement. For this assignment, you would probably only use it for
   persuasive purposes.</p>
   <p><b>Note:</b> When conducting research on the Internet, it's easy to be tempted to copy
    material as it exists on websites. Resist any such temptation to copy content from the Internet.
    Researching material on the Internet is completely acceptable (and encouraged); however, content
    you submit for assignments must be completely original.</p><p><b>Topics You Cannot Use</b></p><p>You <b>cannot</b> use the same topics that are described in or attached to this assignment.
    Additionally, there are a few other topics that you cannot use for your white paper because they
    either have been overused or are not issues that can be solved through a white paper:<ul
     id="ul_u5f_gzp_fx">
     <li>Traffic and parking issues at VT (this is not a white paper, but I mention it because it is
      a popular topic when students write persuasive papers)</li>
     <li>Dining services or facilities issues at VT (overused topic)</li>
     <li>Converting a town from dirty to clean energy (too large for a paper of this size); however,
      you could write a related paper for households (for example, converting a home to solar
      power)</li>
     <li>Topics defending illegal activities (inappropriate for this project)</li>
     <li>Political or social topics (these topics are typically essays)</li>
    </ul></p><p><b>Requirements</b></p><p>
    <ul id="ul_rj3_3pt_2x">
     <li>Post the final document here as a <b>PDF</b> file. Employers and clients will typically
      expect deliverables to be submitted in a format that they prefer. So it's good to get used to
      submitting to a defined standard. If you submit the document as a Word file or any format
      other than PDF, I will deduct points and ask you to resubmit.</li>
     <li>Focus on the grammar, writing style, and consistency like we covered in the initial
      classes. Also, use the correct format, style, and grammar for writing instructions as covered
      in the lesson on instructions. This will all be part of your grade.</li>
     <li>Integrate tables, images, illustrations, or other figures (<b>at least two</b>, but as many
      as it takes) that support your narrative. But don’t just use them as decoration. Use them to
      help inform the reader about the topic or to help with persuasion. Remember, if an
      illustration is not your own, be sure you have permission to reuse it and that you cite the
      source.</li>
     <li>This list does not include an inventory of the sections you should include in the white
      paper. That's what our reading assignments and class lessons are for. The objective here is to
      apply what you have learned about the genre.</li>
    </ul>
   </p><p><b>White Paper Guidelines</b></p><ul id="ul_hw5_2qt_2x">
    <li>The white paper will probably need to be around 1,000 to 1,500 efficient words. I say
     “efficient” words because technical writing should be as concise as possible. The goal is great
     content, not number of words. Page count is not really a good measure because formatting, white
     space, illustrations, and other factors influence page count as much as words do. Also, you
     might have research and supplemental data to include in appendixes, which can take up pages
     (and which you should not consider as part of your word count).</li>
    <li>After you write the document, be sure to revise it, edit it, re-edit it, and re-edit it
     again. If I see a simple typo, it probably means you didn't spend much time editing the
     document.</li>
   </ul><ul id="ul_iw5_2qt_2x">
    <li>This is not an academic essay, so do not format your document like one. Make it inviting and
     interesting to look at. This should be something that invites readers in and holds their
     attention. Use the page design concepts we cover in that corresponding lesson.</li>
    <li>Look at the sample PDFs from the lesson and those that are attached to this assignment. Some
     of them may be larger than your project, but they will give you ideas about how to proceed.
     Keep in mind that the intent with providing examples is not for you to simply copy and replace
     your own text. It’s to give you a feel for how other people approach writing this genre.</li>
   </ul><ul id="ul_jw5_2qt_2x">
    <li>Remember your audience (<b>not</b> me as the reviewer and grader, but the real audience
     based on your assessment).</li>
   </ul></example>
 </conbody>
</concept>
