<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="concept_wl3_llq_fx">
 <title>Description Document Workshop</title>
 <shortdesc>This workshop has students review, edit, and provide feedback on fellow students'
  description document assignment.</shortdesc>
 <conbody>
    <p><b>Purpose:</b> Have students review an assigned paper and offer feedback to one another to
      help the writer in the editing process. This workshop also provides students with an
      additional method to apply what they have been learning in the class.</p>
    <p><b>Summary:</b> Students exchange a solid draft (near final draft) of their assigned <xref
        href="paper_description_doc.dita#concept_ffq_m3t_2x">description document paper</xref> with
      two other students who review, edit, and provide feedback on the work. Each student reviews
      two papers and has their paper reviewed by two students. You can provide students with the
      checklist and guidelines below to help them as they review one another's description
        documents.<note type="tip"><xref href="../resources/lms.dita#concept_oqy_5xp_rw"
          >Canvas</xref> provides an automated system for assigning papers to students for review.
        The system automatically manages the process of sharing the papers with assigned reviewers
        and then collecting their edits/feedback.</note></p>
    <p><b>Corresponding Lesson Topics:</b> Reviews and copyedits; grammar and punctuation; writing
      style; definitions and descriptions.</p>
    <p><b>Grading Guidelines:</b> Ensure the student has written a solid draft of their paper. Also
      verify the quality of the edits and feedback the student provided for their review. The review
      should be thoughtful and reflect an application of their knowledge of writing style, grammar
      and punctuation, and the description genre.</p>
  <example>
   <title>Editing Checklist for Description Document</title>
   <p>Use the bullet points below as guidelines to help in editing each description document for
    this workshop (these are guidelines, so feel free to add other feedback not covered here). As
    you edit the document, don’t simply say (for example) “Double check if this punctuation is
    correct.” Instead, look up the answer yourself so you can tell the writer with authority.
    Remember, the workshop is not just about editing another writer’s paper. It is also about
    reinforcing what you are learning about technical writing.</p>
   <p><b>Writing</b><ul id="ul_x3t_ypq_fx">
     <li>Document has a clear title that briefly and accurately describes the topic.</li>
     <li>Content is an object description, mechanism description, or process description.</li>
     <li>Writer sticks to the one topic and does not meander.</li>
     <li>Writing is free of grammatical, punctuation, spelling, and typographical errors.</li>
     <li>Content is easy to understand and informational.</li>
     <li>Wording is not extraneous but is instead concise.</li>
     <li>Writing is free of passive voice (unless used in an appropriate situation).</li>
    </ul></p>
   <p><b>Design</b><ul id="ul_pkf_2qq_fx">
     <li>Document looks professional (not like an academic essay).</li>
     <li>Page design invites reader in and holds the reader’s attention.</li>
     <li>Document has consistent use of headings (if any), text alignment, fonts, and any other
      elements.</li>
    </ul></p>
  </example>
 </conbody>
</concept>
