<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="concept_mx4_ylq_fx">
 <title>White Paper Workshop</title>
 <shortdesc>This workshop has students review, edit, and provide feedback on fellow students' white
  paper assignment.</shortdesc>
 <conbody>
    <p><b>Purpose:</b> Have students review an assigned paper and offer feedback to one another to
      help the writer in the editing process. This workshop also provides students with an
      additional method to apply what they have been learning in the class.</p>
    <p><b>Summary:</b> Students exchange a solid draft (near final draft) of their assigned <xref
        href="project_white_paper.dita#concept_lw3_ddq_fx">white paper project</xref> with two other
      students who review, edit, and provide feedback on the work. Each student reviews two papers
      and has their paper reviewed by two students. You can provide students with the checklist and
      guidelines below to help them as they review one another's white papers.<note type="tip"><xref
          href="../resources/lms.dita#concept_oqy_5xp_rw">Canvas</xref> provides an automated system
        for assigning papers to students for review. The system automatically manages the process of
        sharing the papers with assigned reviewers and then collecting their
      edits/feedback.</note></p>
    <p><b>Corresponding Lesson Topics:</b> Reviews and copyedits; grammar and punctuation; writing
      style; white papers.</p>
    <p><b>Grading Guidelines:</b> Ensure the student has written a solid draft of their paper. Also
      verify the quality of the edits and feedback the student provided for their review. The review
      should be thoughtful and reflect an application of their knowledge of writing style, grammar
      and punctuation, and the white paper genre.</p>
  <example>
   <title>Editing Checklist for White Paper</title>
   <p>Use the bullet points below as guidelines to help in editing each white paper for this
    workshop (these are guidelines, so feel free to add other feedback not covered here). As you
    edit the document, don’t simply say (for example) “Double check if this punctuation is correct.”
    Instead, look up the answer yourself so you can tell the writer with authority. Remember, the
    workshop is not just about editing another writer’s paper. It is also about reinforcing what you
    are learning about technical writing.</p>
   <p><b>Writing</b><ul id="ul_x3t_ypq_fx">
     <li>Document has a clear title that briefly and accurately describes the topic.</li>
     <li>Writing is free of grammatical, punctuation, spelling, and typographical errors.</li>
     <li>Content is easy to understand.</li>
     <li>Wording is not extraneous but is instead concise.</li>
     <li>Writing is free of passive voice (unless used in an appropriate situation).</li>
    </ul></p>
   <p><b>White Paper Characteristics</b><ul id="ul_xrs_crq_fx">
     <li>Beginning sets up the topic the white paper discusses.</li>
     <li>Main content is informative and/or educational.</li>
     <li>Narrative subtly persuades you toward an action (even if that action is simply to consider
      an idea).</li>
    </ul></p>
   <p><b>Design</b><ul id="ul_pkf_2qq_fx">
     <li>Document looks professional (not like an academic essay).</li>
     <li>Page design invites reader in and holds the reader’s attention.</li>
     <li>Document has consistent use of headings (if any), text alignment, fonts, and any other
      elements.</li>
     <li>Document contains professional illustrations, charts, and/or tables that support the
      narrative.</li>
    </ul></p>
  </example>
 </conbody>
</concept>
