<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="concept_mcp_tlq_fx">
 <title>Instruction Set Workshop</title>
 <shortdesc>This workshop has students review, edit, and provide feedback on fellow students'
  instruction set assignment.</shortdesc>
 <conbody>
  <p><b>Purpose:</b> Have students review an assigned paper and offer feedback to one another to
   help the writer in the editing process. This workshop also provides students with an additional
   method to apply what they have been learning in the class.</p>
  <p><b>Summary:</b> Students exchange a solid draft (near final draft) of their assigned <xref
    href="paper_instructions.dita#concept_wym_pc1_fx">instruction set paper</xref> with two other
   students who review, edit, and provide feedback on the work. Each student reviews two papers and
   has their paper reviewed by two students. You can provide students with the checklist and
   guidelines below to help them as they review one another's instruction sets.<note type="tip"
     ><xref href="../resources/lms.dita#concept_oqy_5xp_rw">Canvas</xref> provides an automated
    system for assigning papers to students for review. The system automatically manages the process
    of sharing the papers with assigned reviewers and then collecting their
   edits/feedback.</note></p>
  <p><b>Corresponding Lesson Topics:</b> Reviews and copyedits; grammar and punctuation; writing
   style; instructions.</p>
  <p><b>Grading Guidelines:</b> Ensure the student has written a solid draft of their paper. Also
   verify the quality of the edits and feedback the student provided for their review. The review
   should be thoughtful and reflect an application of their knowledge of writing style, grammar and
   punctuation, and the instructions genre.</p>
  <example>
   <title>Editing Checklist for Instruction Set</title>
   <p>Use the bullet points below as guidelines to help in editing each instruction set for this
    workshop (these are guidelines, so feel free to add other feedback not covered here). As you
    edit the document, don’t simply say (for example) “Double check if this punctuation is correct.”
    Instead, look up the answer yourself so you can tell the writer with authority. Remember, the
    workshop is not just about editing another writer’s paper. It is also about reinforcing what you
    are learning about technical writing.</p>
   <p><b>Writing</b><ul id="ul_x3t_ypq_fx">
     <li>Document has a clear title that briefly and accurately describes the topic.</li>
     <li>Document contains at least one conceptual topic (informational section) that is clearly
      separate from the procedures and provides a clear background of the topic the procedures
      address.</li>
     <li>Document contains three or four procedural topics (sections with steps) with headings that
      clearly identify the procedure.</li>
     <li>Writing is free of grammatical, punctuation, spelling, and typographical errors.</li>
     <li>Content is easy to understand and informational.</li>
     <li>Wording is not extraneous but is instead concise.</li>
     <li>Writing is free of passive voice (unless used in an appropriate situation).</li>
    </ul></p>
   <p><b>Procedures</b><ul id="ul_lmq_kqq_fx">
     <li>Steps are introduced with clear stem sentences. A brief introductory sentence or two are
      also acceptable, but they should be followed by a stem sentence that introduces the
      steps.</li>
     <li>Steps are ordered with Arabic numerals (1, 2, 3), and each set of steps (each procedural
      section) starts with the number <b>1</b>.</li>
     <li>Sub-steps are ordered with lowercase letters (a, b, c), and each set of sub-steps starts
      with the letter <b>a</b>.</li>
     <li>Steps use the imperative mood (direct, specific commands that typically begin with a
      verb).</li>
     <li>One procedure contains no more than 7 (± 2) steps.</li>
     <li>If needed, the procedure tells the reader how they will know if they are successful.</li>
    </ul></p>
   <p><b>Design</b><ul id="ul_pkf_2qq_fx">
     <li>Document looks professional (not like an academic essay).</li>
     <li>Page design invites reader in and holds the reader’s attention.</li>
     <li>Document has consistent use of headings (if any), text alignment, fonts, and any other
      elements.</li>
    </ul></p>
  </example>
 </conbody>
</concept>
