<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="concept_mrc_lwd_bx">
 <title>Memo with Self-Introduction</title>
 <shortdesc>This exercise has students introduce themselves by writing a memo.</shortdesc>
 <conbody>
  <p><b>Purpose:</b> Provide students a way to introduce themselves while at the same time get
   comfortable writing within the constraints of a specific technical writing genre.</p>
  <p><b>Summary:</b> Students must write a brief memo in a format described in the textbook to
   introduce themselves to the class. Before posting this exercise, you must post your own memo with
   self-introduction as the instructor.</p>
  <p><b>Corresponding Lesson Topics:</b> Course introduction; correspondence (specifically
   memos).</p>
  <p><b>Grading Guidelines:</b> Ensure the student has written their introduction as a real memo in
   correct memo format (with a memo identifier and document identification information) as opposed
   to just writing the body text. Also make sure the content is written completely and correctly as
   opposed to, for example, a few brief sentence fragments.</p>
  <example>
   <title>Description for Students</title>
   <p><b>Before You Begin:</b> Be sure to read this lesson’s reading assignments. This introduction
    must be posted in memo format, as described in the textbook reading, to receive credit for the
    exercise. If you do not yet have the textbook, at least look at the memo format in my own
    posting to help you get started.</p>
   <p>In the <b>Introduce Yourself</b> discussion (under <b>Discussions</b> in Canvas), write a memo
    to the class that provides a brief introduction about yourself. Consider the following
     guidelines:<ul id="ul_bqr_xc2_bx">
     <li>Be sure to structure the posting as a memo. Memos are discussed in chapter 9 of the
      textbook. Remember, memos are not formal the way business letters are.</li>
     <li>Post your introduction (your memo with your background information) in the discussion
      titled <b>Introduce Yourself</b>. To post your introduction, you simply "reply" to my initial
      posting. Your name will automatically appear with your posting.</li>
     <li>If you are new to discussions (or Canvas in general), use this exercise as a chance to play
      around with the text editing feature.</li>
     <li>Browse through and read what others have posted. Click the <b>Reply</b> link in someone's
      introduction and welcome them.</li>
     <li>The entire class will be able to read your document, so be professional and write as
      correctly as you can.</li>
     <li>Consider your audience—not just me, but also all of the students. What are we interested
      in? I would think at least your name, academic year and major, where you're from, and any
      interests you have. Try to add something interesting about yourself that makes you
      unique.</li>
     <li>You will soon learn that technical writers love to bulletize information. It makes it easy
      for the audience to scan and process. Maybe try a brief sentence or two to introduce yourself
      in a paragraph, followed by a bullet list of relevant information.</li>
    </ul></p>
   <p>I went first and created a posting in the forum. Feel free to use it as an example. However,
    remember that memos can be formatted a variety of ways, as illustrated in chapter 9 of the
    textbook.</p>
  </example>
  <example>
   <title>Example of Instructor Posting</title>
   <p><b>CLASS MEMO</b></p>
   <p><b>To:</b> Students of ENGL3764</p>
   <p><b>From:</b> John Doe</p>
   <p><b>Subject:</b> Introduction</p>
   <p><b>Date:</b> May 23, 2016</p>
   <p>Hello. My name is John Doe, and I am the instructor of this course. My master’s degree is in
    technical and professional writing, and I have been in the technical writing industry for around
    20 years. While my expertise is in software documentation, I have worked on many other projects
    such as consumer electronics and business services. The following factoids will tell you a
    little more about myself:<ul id="ul_osq_ff2_bx">
     <li>I was born and raised in Massachusetts (go Sox!).</li>
     <li>Though I’m a technical writer by profession, I have also taken an interest in screenwriting
      and wrote a couple of unproduced screenplays while receiving a certificate in feature film
      writing at UCLA Extension.</li>
     <li>A little known fact about me is that, before my writing career, I considered a career in
      aviation and earned a pilot’s license with instrument rating (yes, I’ve landed a small
      airplane through the clouds).</li>
    </ul></p>
  </example>
 </conbody>
</concept>
