<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="concept_n2v_4jz_bx">
 <title>Letter of Understanding for White Paper</title>
 <shortdesc>This exercise has students write a business letter that explains their decisions for
  their white paper project.</shortdesc>
 <conbody>
  <p><b>Purpose:</b> Have students explain their plans for the <xref
                href="../assignments/project_white_paper.dita#concept_lw3_ddq_fx">white paper
                project</xref>, providing an opportunity for you to approve projects and work with
            students if necessary to refine their project plans. This exercise also gives students
            practice writing a formal business letter. </p>
  <p><b>Summary:</b> Students must write a formal business letter, in correct business letter
            format, explaining their decision for the white paper project, including the topic and
            thoughts about how they might present the project in an <xref
                href="../assignments/presentation_white_paper_topic.dita#concept_vdv_zkq_fx">oral
                presentation</xref>.</p>
  <p><b>Corresponding Lesson Topics:</b> White papers; making oral presentations; correspondence
      (specifically letters).</p>
  <p><b>Grading Guidelines:</b> Verify the students have written their letter as a real business
      letter in correct letter format. Also make sure the content is clear, concise, persuasive, and
      grammatically correct. Separately, verify that the selected topic is acceptable for the
      project and that the students have thought about the corresponding oral presentation.</p>
  <example>
   <title>Description for Students</title>
   <p>Write a <b>business letter</b> explaining your decision for your <b>white paper project</b>.
    This letter must be in <b>standard business letter format</b>, as covered in our correspondence
    lesson. Be sure to first read the assignment description of the white paper project so you know
    the requirements and banned topics before working on this letter.</p>
   <p>Save the document as a <b>PDF</b> file, and upload it to this assignment. If I have any issues
    with or questions about your project, I will message you to resolve them.</p>
   <p>Include the following information in the business letter:<ul id="ul_l2k_1ts_bx">
     <li>The subject matter of your white paper (what you will be informing or teaching your
       audience about)</li>
     <li>The intended audience</li>
     <li>What you will be trying to persuade your audience toward and how you will go about doing it</li>
     <li>How you will deliver the corresponding oral presentation (for example, as slides with a
      voice over or maybe a YouTube video presentation)</li>
    </ul></p>
  </example>
 </conbody>
</concept>
