<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="concept_avw_frr_bx">
 <title>Business Claim Letter</title>
 <shortdesc>This exercise has students write a claim letter to a vendor to recover losses from an
  event.</shortdesc>
 <conbody>
  <p><b>Purpose:</b> Give students practice writing a formal business letter based on a practical
   situation.</p>
  <p><b>Summary:</b> Students must write a formal business letter, in correct business letter
      format, to seek reimbursement for faulty equipment. To make reviewing the exercise submissions
      more manageable, you should have an example prepared to give students after they complete the
      exercise so they can compare their results. The example below includes corresponding letters
      you could use as the solution.</p>
  <p><b>Corresponding Lesson Topic:</b> Correspondence (specifically letters).</p>
  <p><b>Grading Guidelines:</b> Ensure the student has written their letter as a real business
      letter in correct letter format. Also make sure the content is clear, concise, persuasive, and
      grammatically correct. Students can self-correct this exercise against a model that you
      post.</p>
  <example>
   <title>Description for Students</title>
   <p>Write a business claim letter for the following scenario:<lq>As the head of research for a
     biological research organization, you recently purchased a $2,000 commercial refrigerator for
     storing research samples. Recently, you suffered a loss of more than $600 in samples when the
     thermostat failed and the temperature in the refrigerator rose to more than 48 degrees over the
     weekend. Inventing any reasonable details, write a claim letter to the manufacturer of the
     refrigerator.</lq></p>
   <note>This is exercise #1 on page 239 of the following textbook: Markel, Mike. <cite>Practical
          Strategies for Technical Communication</cite>. Boston: Bedford/St. Martin’s. 2013.</note>
   <p>Consider the following guidelines:<ul id="ul_bqr_xc2_bx">
     <li>Keep the letter to one page, just as you would for the same situation in the "real
      world."</li>
     <li>Identify your audience based on the scenario, and write the letter with a tone and level of
      sophistication that is appropriate for that audience. </li>
     <li>Use an official business-letter format, as shown in the textbook.</li>
    </ul></p>
   <p>After you finish, upload your letter as a <b>PDF</b>.</p>
  </example>
    <example>
      <title>Possible Solution (from Author of the Above Textbook)</title>
      <p>United Lab Services<lines>220 Central Avenue</lines><lines>Abilene, TX 79601</lines></p>
      <p>December 12, 2014</p>
      <p> </p>
      <p>Mr. Wylie
        Flores<lines>Dillard Refrigeration and Supply</lines><lines>17 Main Street</lines><lines>Abilene, TX 79603</lines></p>
      <p> </p>
      <p>Subject: Request for reimbursement</p>
      <p> </p>
      <p>Dear Mr. Flores:</p>
      <p> In August of this year, my organization purchased an ExcelTemp 340 commercial refrigerator
        from your company. We selected the ExcelTemp 340 because of its excellent warranty and your
        company’s commitment to service after the sale.</p>
      <p> Before we closed our lab on Friday, December 5, we completed our standard close-down
        checklist, which includes visually inspecting the thermometer inside the refrigerator and
        locking the handle latch. Although the refrigerator was functioning normally when we locked
        the door, it malfunctioned after that. When we unlocked the refrigerator Monday, December 8,
        the temperature had risen to 48 degrees.</p>
      <p> We then called your company, and you promptly sent over a technician to fix the
        temperature control problem. Although we appreciate the quick service, we ask that you
        reimburse us $624 for the lab samples in the refrigerator that were damaged due to the
        refrigerator malfunction. The $624 is based on eight lost samples, which cost $78 each in
        labor and materials to replace. Because we were using the ExcelTemp 340 for its stated
        purpose and we can be certain that the door was properly closed, we believe this is a valid
        claim under our one-year warranty.</p>
      <p>Please send your check to my attention at your earliest convenience.</p>
      <p>Sincerely,</p>
      <p>[Signature]</p>
      <p>Boyd Jackson</p>
      <p>Lab Services Director</p>
    </example>
    <example><title>Alternate Solution</title><p>United Lab
        Services<lines>220 Central Avenue</lines><lines>Abilene, TX 79601</lines></p>
      <p>December 12, 2014</p><p> </p><p>Mr. Wylie
        Flores<lines>Dillard Refrigeration and Supply</lines><lines>17 Main Street</lines><lines>Abilene, TX 79603</lines></p><p> </p><p>Subject:
        Request for Reimbursement</p><p> </p><p>Dear Mr. Flores:</p><p>While using the ExcelTemp 340
        commercial refrigerator we purchased from your company, my organization lost critical lab
        samples when the refrigerator malfunctioned. I am requesting that you reimburse us $624 for
        losses from this incident, as the refrigerator is still under warranty.</p><p>My
        organization purchased the ExcelTemp 340 refrigerator primarily because of its excellent
        warranty and your company’s commitment to service after the sale. I was surprised such a
        quality refrigerator malfunctioned and therefore investigated the incident myself. I can
        confirm the following details:</p><ul id="ul_t4t_gks_bx">
        <li>Before closing our lab on Friday, December 5, we visually inspected the thermometer
          inside the refrigerator and locked the handle latch.</li>
        <li>The refrigerator was functioning normally when we locked the door.</li>
        <li>When we unlocked the refrigerator Monday, December 8, the temperature had risen to 48
          degrees.</li>
        <li>The elevated temperature destroyed eight samples, each costing $78 in labor and
          materials to replace—the total loss from the malfunction was $624.</li>
      </ul><p>We are grateful your company sent over a technician to fix the temperature control
        problem. However, because we were using the ExcelTemp 340 refrigerator for its stated
        purpose and are certain the door was properly closed, we believe this is a valid claim under
        the unit’s warranty. Please send your check to my attention at your earliest
        convenience.</p>Thank you for your prompt
        attention.<p>Sincerely,</p><p>[Signature]</p><p>Boyd Jackson</p><p>Lab Services
      Director</p></example>
 </conbody>
</concept>
