<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="concept_upf_vgs_bx">
 <title>Proposal Summary</title>
 <shortdesc>This exercise has students take the details from a complete proposal, and condense them
  into one short summary that could appear on the proposal's title page.</shortdesc>
 <conbody>
  <p><b>Purpose:</b> Have students think about the components of a proposal and practice condensing
   content down to a bare minimum.</p>
  <p><b>Summary:</b> Based on details from a proposal, students must write a short summary that
   highlights all aspects of the proposal. Before posting this exercise, you must have an example
   prepared to give students after they complete the exercise so that they can compare their
   results. The example below includes a corresponding summary that could be used as the
   solution.</p>
  <p><b>Corresponding Lesson Topic:</b> Proposals.</p>
  <p><b>Grading Guidelines:</b> Ensure students did not write more than 250 words and that they
   covered all aspects of the proposal. Students can self-correct this exercise against a model that
   instructors post.</p>
  <example>
   <title>Description for Students</title>
   <p>Write a summary for a proposal based on the following key points from a request for proposal
    (RFP):</p>
   <ul id="ul_bvt_n3s_bx">
    <li>
     <p>You are proposing to manufacture a computer microprocessor that can save a laptop
      manufacturer $250,000/year in expenses.</p>
    </li>
    <li>
     <p>The total cost you would have to charge to manufacturer is $500,000.</p>
    </li>
    <li>
     <p>Your proposed duration for the project is one year.</p>
    </li>
    <li>
     <p>Feel free to invent any other relevant facts.</p>
    </li>
    <li>This exercise should really be one short paragraph.</li>
    <li>
     <p>Do not be concerned with visual design, only the quality of the written content. </p>
    </li>
   </ul>
   <p>After you finish, upload your brief summary as a <b>PDF</b>. A model example will be available
    to you after the exercise deadline so that you can compare to your own work.</p>
  </example>
  <example>
   <title>Possible Solution</title>
   <p>In response to your RFP, Ace Industries is offering our 20 years of digital manufacturing
    experience to supply ABC Electronics with a new computer microprocessor that will save you
    $250,000 per year in laptop manufacturing costs. We are prepared to begin the project as soon as
    March 1, 2017 and can have the microprocessor ready for distribution by March 1, 2018. The total
    cost for fulfillment would be $500,000, which you would recognize in savings in only two
    years.</p>
  </example>
 </conbody>
</concept>
