<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="concept_f5y_mcs_bx">
 <title>Grammar and Punctuation Worksheet</title>
 <shortdesc>This exercise has students fix punctuation and grammar errors in sentences.</shortdesc>
 <conbody>
  <p><b>Purpose:</b> Give students an opportunity to determine how prepared they are for the grammar
   and punctuation exams. If you are not administering grammar and punctuation exams in your
   classes, this exercise still helps students think about grammatical accuracy in technical
   writing.</p>
  <p><b>Summary:</b> With a worksheet containing sentences with multiple grammatical and punctuation
   errors, students must fix the errors and explain what the errors are. This exercise requires you
   to create a worksheet you would like to use along with an answer key to share with students after
   they perform the exercise (students can self-correct their worksheets). </p>
  <p><b>Corresponding Lesson Topic:</b> Grammar and punctuation review.</p>
  <p><b>Grading Guidelines:</b> Verify that students were able to identify the errors and that they
   understand why the errors are in fact errors. Students should answer, for example, "a comma is
   required before a coordinating conjunction that separates two independent clauses" instead of
   simply "a comma is required." Students can self-correct this exercise against an answer key that
   you post.</p>
  <example>
   <title>Description for Students</title>
   <p>The document attached to this assignment has several sentences with grammar and punctuation
    issues (which could mean more than one error per sentence). For each sentence, rewrite the
    sentence correctly. Also explain why each error in the original is grammatically incorrect
    (which again could mean more than one explanation per sentence).</p>
   <p>After you finish, upload your finished document to this assignment as a <b>PDF</b> file. The
    model answers will be available to you after the exercise deadline so that you can self-correct
    your worksheet.</p>
  </example>
 </conbody>
</concept>
