<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="concept_afl_ncr_dx">
 <title>Exercise Descriptions</title>
 <shortdesc>Exercises are low-risk deliverables that help students get comfortable with new concepts
  and, in some cases, give students a starting point to build up to the larger assignments they must
  submit for grades in the course.</shortdesc>
 <conbody>
  <p>The exercises discussed in this section support the suggested <xref
    href="../lessons/lesson_descriptions.dita#concept_wk5_lkc_bx">lessons</xref> for this course.
   While there is not a matching exercise for every lesson described in this handbook, the exercises
   discussed here provide a balance of student work across most of the course lessons.</p>
  <p>Because this course is delivered online, it is critical to provide detailed instructions for
   students to complete each exercise. The exercises provided here include suggested descriptions
   that you can use as is or modify as needed.</p>
  <p>Exercises should be lower risk than <xref
    href="../assignments/assignment_descriptions.dita#concept_rfl_wzp_rw">assignments</xref> and
   thus typically do not receive an individual grade other than "completed" or "not completed." To
   have their exercise marked as "completed," students must demonstrate that they put forth an
   effort toward accomplishing the goals of the exercise (regardless of whether or not they did so
   correctly).</p>
  <p>Instead of assigning grades for each exercise, you could assign one grade to all exercises
   collectively, basing the grade on the percentage of exercises a student completes at the end of
   the semester. Following this model, the grade weight for all exercises could be equivalent to the
   grade weight of one major <xref
    href="../assignments/assignment_descriptions_projects.dita#concept_qsg_ddr_dx">project</xref>.
   For example, if major projects are each worth 15% of the final grade, then the collection of
   exercises would also be worth 15% of the final grade. If a student were to complete 80% of
   assigned exercises, they would receive an 80 as their exercises grade, which would be worth 15%
   of their final grade.</p>
 </conbody>
</concept>
