<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="concept_sn4_42s_bx">
 <title>Instructions</title>
 <shortdesc>This exercise has students write steps for the audience to perform a specific
  task.</shortdesc>
 <conbody>
  <p><b>Purpose:</b> Give students an opportunity to practice writing instructions prior to the
    <xref href="../assignments/paper_instructions.dita#concept_wym_pc1_fx">graded instruction set
    assignment</xref>.</p>
  <p><b>Summary:</b> Give students a very specific task that they would be very familiar with, and
   have them write instructions for an audience who has never performed the task. The example below
   has students write instructions for tying a shoelace. Any task could work for this exercise;
   however, it should be a common task that students know how to perform well. </p>
  <p><b>Corresponding Lesson Topic:</b> Instructions.</p>
  <p><b>Grading Guidelines:</b> Verify that students wrote clear, direct, numbered steps in
   imperative mood. There should be no more than 7 +/- 2 steps, and each step should have no more
   than one specific action. For the tying a shoelace example below, this is extremely challenging
   for students, who will often try to add multiple actions into one step to avoid going over 7 +/-
   2 steps. The steps should work correctly and not make any assumption that the audience has ever
   tied a shoelace before.</p>
  <example>
   <title>Description for Students</title>
   <p>Using only words (no illustrations), write instructions on how to tie shoelaces. Though this
    may sound like a silly exercise, it is actually quite challenging to do because you must adhere
    to the guidelines discussed in the lecture about writing instructions and you cannot assume any
    knowledge about the audience. This will make it more difficult than it initially seems because
    you likely take these steps for granted every day and never even think about them when tying
    shoelaces.</p>
   <p>Consider the following guidelines:</p>
   <ul id="ul_tjh_xfs_bx">
    <li>
     <p>While it’s true that pictures can be “worth 1,000 words” and are typically desirable in
      technical documentation, this exercise is about practicing how to write steps. Therefore, you
      cannot use illustrations--you must use only words to explain how to perform the task.</p>
    </li>
    <li>
     <p>You must assume the audience knows nothing about tying a shoelace and has never seen the
      task performed prior to receiving your instructions.</p>
    </li>
    <li>
     <p>You only have to focus on the steps and not a formal document as a whole.</p>
    </li>
    <li>
     <p>While the writing will be shorter in nature (7 steps +/- 2), the planning should be
      extensive to make sure clear, concise steps result in the desired outcome.</p>
    </li>
    <li>
     <p>Do not use sub-steps to make it easier to meet the seven-step rule.</p>
    </li>
    <li>
     <p>Remember that steps are numbered, not bulleted.</p>
    </li>
    <li>
     <p>Write with clear instructions in the imperative mood (in the form of a command or
      request).</p>
    </li>
    <li>
     <p>When finished writing, test the instructions (better yet, have someone else test them).</p>
    </li>
   </ul>
   <p>Save the document as a <b>PDF</b> file, and upload a copy here.</p>
  </example>
 </conbody>
</concept>
