<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="concept_vvb_b5r_bx">
 <title>Extended Definition</title>
 <shortdesc>This exercise has students work together in a small group to write an extended
    definition of a topic with which the entire group is already familiar.</shortdesc>
 <conbody>
  <p><b>Purpose:</b> Give students practice writing a longer narrative in which they describe an
      object while at the same time exposing them to working on writing projects in a group
      setting.</p>
  <p><b>Summary:</b> Students must write an extended definition for a term assigned to them. The
      term should be something with which the students are already familiar. Therefore, using terms
      related to academia works well for this exercise. Before posting this exercise, you must place
      students into groups. The example below assumes you use <b>Collaborations</b> in Canvas to
      group students. The example also has students simply upload a PDF for you to post in Canvas
        <b>Files</b> for other students to review. An alternative to this would be to simply allow
      all students to access each of the other group documents through <xref
        href="../resources/google_drive.dita#concept_hqg_ddd_dx">Google Drive</xref>. Academic terms
      you could assign to groups might include: Financial Aid, Tuition, Syllabus, Academic Major,
      Grade Point Average, Academic Minor, Canvas.</p>
  <p><b>Corresponding Lesson Topic:</b> Definitions and descriptions.</p>
  <p><b>Grading Guidelines:</b> Ensure the students were able to collaborate in a cooperative
      manner. The deliverable should have a professional extended definition that reflects concepts
      from the textbook. Also make sure the content is clear, concise, and grammatically
      correct.</p>
  <example>
   <title>Description for Students</title>
   <p>With your assigned group, write an <b>extended definition</b> of the word assigned to you
        (listed below). Extended definitions are covered in the assigned textbook reading and in our
        class lesson. The word your group is assigned is one from a group of terms related to
        academia (terms you are probably already familiar with). For this exercise, pretend you are
        working on an information booklet for junior high and high school students who know nothing
        about college life or Virginia Tech. Your goal is to write a definition that will make them
        understand this new terminology.</p>
   <p>Use these steps to work with your group:<ol id="ol_qw5_kvr_bx">
     <li>Use the <b>Collaborations</b> menu to identify the members in your assigned group, and put
      a plan together to work with each other. We are all working at our own time and pace in this
      online course, so be courteous with one another so one person isn't doing all the work. You
      should reach out to your team <b>immediately</b>. If you are unable to reach a person on your
      team, or if anyone on your team is not participating, let me know as soon as possible so that
      I can help remedy the situation.</li>
     <li>Share documents with your group using whatever means you agree to. Canvas works best with
            Google Drive, through which you can author your document in Google Docs.</li>
     <li>When your group is finished, save the document as a <b>PDF</b> file, and upload it to this
      assignment.</li>
     <li>I will post the documents to Canvas under <b>Files</b> and then post an announcement when
      they are available. Browse through the documents to see what other groups came up with for
      their extended definitions (each group has their own definition).</li>
    </ol></p>
   <p>Consider the following guidelines:<ul id="ul_n3s_2xr_bx">
     <li>
      <p>It's not a large project, but typically extended definitions of the terms in this specific
       exercise take about a half page. Each group has one term to define (one half page). I have
       seen some groups go as far as one whole page, usually with outstanding results. Remember that
       this is an extended definition, so it is not as simple as writing one sentence that says, "A
       course is a class on a specific subject."</p>
     </li>
     <li>
      <p>Your audience is junior high and high school students who know nothing about college life
       or Virginia Tech but who need to learn. Use the appropriate style and clarity for this type
       of audience.</p>
     </li>
     <li>
      <p>Though it's a short writing exercise, think of your content as having a beginning, middle,
              and end. In the beginning, you introduce your content—in this case, the term you are
              going to define. In the middle, you provide the relevant details for your content.
              Finally, in the end, you conclude the content with a summary or other conclusions you
              want to draw about your content.</p>
     </li>
     <li>
      <p>The intent is for the entire class to read your final document, so be professional and
       remember that the whole class "is watching."</p>
     </li>
    </ul></p>
  </example>
 </conbody>
</concept>
