<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="concept_gvm_khz_bx">
 <title>Research Sources</title>
 <shortdesc>This exercise has students work together in their project group to perform a complete
  assessment of research they must perform for their project.</shortdesc>
 <conbody>
  <p><b>Purpose:</b> Have students put together a plan for the research they must conduct for their
    <xref href="../assignments/project_formal_report.dita#concept_fjg_crp_fx">formal report group
    project</xref>, allowing them to distribute work across the team. This exercise will provide
   insight into the level of work students are putting into their group project and if they are
   thinking about what they must plan for both project and content.</p>
  <p><b>Summary:</b> Students must think through both primary and secondary research for their
   formal report project and identify as many details about each piece of research. Before posting
   this exercise, you must place students into project groups (these are the same groups as for the
   formal report project and <xref
    href="exercise_letter_project_understanding_report.dita#concept_znd_3qs_bx">letter of project
    understanding exercise</xref>). The groups should be organized based on academic discipline so
   that students can write on a subject related to their discipline (depending on the variety of
   majors in the class, this might not be possible for all students). The example below assumes you
   used <b>Collaborations</b> in Canvas to group students. This exercise could be paired with the
    <xref href="exercise_audience_assessment.dita#concept_ry5_3fz_bx">audience assessment
    exercise</xref>, having students work on both exercises simultaneously.</p>
  <p><b>Corresponding Lesson Topics:</b> Research; recommendation reports; proposals.</p>
  <p><b>Grading Guidelines:</b> Ensure the students were able to collaborate in a cooperative
   manner. Verify the students have truly thought through real research and that their project must
   be based on research as opposed to fabricated information.</p>
  <example>
   <title>Description for Students</title>
   <p>Based on your current knowledge of the audience(s) for your <b>formal report project</b>, work
    with your assigned group to identify at least five sources you can use as research for your
    document. Consider as many sources as possible, including:</p>
   <ul id="ul_cfz_33z_bx">
    <li>Journal articles</li>
    <li>Surveys</li>
    <li>Interviews</li>
    <li>Direct observation (for example, observing traffic for volume at an intersection)</li>
   </ul>
   <p>Basically, just brainstorm everything you can about your research. But be as thorough as you
    can. Describe how you think you can approach the research and what data you think you can use.
    For example, if you brainstorm "student surveys," also brainstorm which academic majors, which
    class years, how many you need to include, and anything you think will help your case.</p>
   <p>When finished, this will probably be one solid page. I care primarily that you have a solid
    idea as to how you will approach your research. However, also use the exercise as an opportunity
    to practice communicating information. For example, think about how to convey your information
    in a manner that is easy to read. Bullet lists? Table structure? Sections with headings? The
    decision is yours.</p>
   <p>Use these steps to work with your group:<ol id="ol_qw5_kvr_bx">
     <li>Use the <b>Collaborations</b> menu to identify the members in your assigned group, and put
      a plan together to work with each other. We are all working at our own time and pace in this
      online course, so be courteous with one another so one person isn't doing all the work. You
      should reach out to your team <b>immediately</b>. If you are unable to reach a person on your
      team, or if anyone on your team is not participating, let me know as soon as possible so that
      I can help remedy the situation.</li>
     <li>Share documents with your group using whatever means you agree to. Canvas works best with
      Google Drive, through which you can author your document in Google Docs.</li>
     <li>When your group is finished, save the document as a <b>PDF</b> file, and upload it to this
      assignment.</li>
    </ol></p>
  </example>
 </conbody>
</concept>
