<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="concept_ry5_3fz_bx">
 <title>Audience Assessment</title>
 <shortdesc>This exercise has students work together in their project group to perform a complete
  assessment of the audience(s) of their formal report project.</shortdesc>
 <conbody>
  <p><b>Purpose:</b> Have students think about who they are writing for and demonstrate that they
   know how to plan for their audience. This exercise will provide insight into the level of work
   students are putting into their <xref
    href="../assignments/project_formal_report.dita#concept_fjg_crp_fx">formal report group
    project</xref> and if they are thinking about what they must plan for both project and
   content.</p>
  <p><b>Summary:</b> Students must think through all audiences, including primary, secondary, and
   tertiary (if relevant) for their formal report project and identify as many characteristics for
   those audiences as possible. Before posting this exercise, you must place students into project
   groups (these are the same groups as for the formal report project and <xref
    href="exercise_letter_project_understanding_report.dita#concept_znd_3qs_bx">letter of project
    understanding exercise</xref>).  The groups should be organized based on academic discipline so
   that students can write on a subject related to their discipline (depending on the variety of
   majors in the class, this might not be possible for all students). The example below assumes you
   used <b>Collaborations</b> in Canvas to group students. This exercise could be paired with the
    <xref href="exercise_research_sources.dita#concept_gvm_khz_bx">research sources exercise</xref>,
   having students work on both exercises simultaneously.</p>
  <p><b>Corresponding Lesson Topics:</b> Audience and purpose; recommendation reports;
   proposals.</p>
  <p><b>Grading Guidelines:</b> Ensure the students were able to collaborate in a cooperative
   manner. Verify the students have truly thought through the audiences for their project and that
   they are able to make decisions based on the audience characteristics they determined.</p>
  <example>
   <title>Description for Students</title>
   <p>Based on your current knowledge of the audience(s) for your <b>formal report project</b>, work
    with your assigned group to identify your audience types (primary, secondary, and tertiary) and
    assess them. Your audience will be a true audience—the people to whom you would actually give
    your report. While I will be reviewing your project to grade it, keep in mind that I am not the
    primary audience. I may be the tertiary audience, but not primary. </p>
   <p>For each of the three audience types:</p>
   <ul id="ul_yzg_qgz_bx">
    <li>Identify their characteristics.</li>
    <li>Identify their purpose(s) for the document.</li>
    <li>List at least two ways you can find more information about them.</li>
   </ul>
   <p>Basically, just brainstorm everything you can about your audience. No fact is insignificant.
    Refer back to the textbook to help think through some of the considerations for assessing your
    audience.</p>
   <p>Be thorough and assess all three audience types (primary, secondary, and tertiary). When
    finished, this will probably be between one and two solid pages. I care primarily about the
    assessment itself—that you know your audience before you start writing your document. However,
    also use the exercise as an opportunity to practice communicating information. For example,
    think about how to convey your information in a manner that is easy to read. Bullet lists? Table
    structure? Sections with headings? The decision is yours.</p>
   <p>Use these steps to work with your group:<ol id="ol_qw5_kvr_bx">
     <li>Use the <b>Collaborations</b> menu to identify the members in your assigned group, and put
      a plan together to work with each other. We are all working at our own time and pace in this
      online course, so be courteous with one another so one person isn't doing all the work. You
      should reach out to your team <b>immediately</b>. If you are unable to reach a person on your
      team, or if anyone on your team is not participating, let me know as soon as possible so that
      I can help remedy the situation.</li>
     <li>Share documents with your group using whatever means you agree to. Canvas works best with
      Google Drive, through which you can author your document in Google Docs.</li>
     <li>When your group is finished, save the document as a <b>PDF</b> file, and upload it to this
      assignment.</li>
    </ol></p>
  </example>
 </conbody>
</concept>
