<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="concept_znd_3qs_bx">
 <title>Letter of Understanding for Formal Report</title>
 <shortdesc>This exercise has students work together in their project group to write a business
  letter that explains their decisions for their formal report project.</shortdesc>
 <conbody>
  <p><b>Purpose:</b> Have students explain their plans for the <xref
    href="../assignments/project_formal_report.dita#concept_fjg_crp_fx">formal report group
    project</xref>, providing an opportunity for you to approve projects and work with students if
   necessary to refine their project plans. This exercise also gives students practice writing a
   formal business letter while giving them a chance to work together in their project group.</p>
  <p><b>Summary:</b> Students must write a formal business letter, in correct business letter
   format, explaining their group's decision for the formal report project, including the report
   type and topic. Before posting this exercise, you must place students into project groups. The
   groups should be organized based on academic discipline so that students can write on a subject
   related to their discipline (depending on the variety of majors in the class, this might not be
   possible for all students). The example below assumes you used <b>Collaborations</b> in Canvas to
   group students.<note type="tip">As discussed with the formal report project, students often
    select topics that can be common and overused. You should include a list of "banned topics" with
    the formal report project description to force students to find topics that are more original.
    The example below refers to such banned topics to remind students to be mindful of
   them.</note></p>
  <p><b>Corresponding Lesson Topics:</b> Recommendation reports; proposals; correspondence
   (specifically letters).</p>
  <p><b>Grading Guidelines:</b> Ensure the students were able to collaborate in a cooperative
   manner. Verify the students have written their letter as a real business letter in correct letter
   format. Also make sure the content is clear, concise, persuasive, and grammatically correct.
   Separately, verify that the selected report type and topic is acceptable for the project. If you
   have "banned topics" for the formal report project, ensure the proposed topic is allowed.</p>
  <example>
   <title>Description for Students</title>
   <p>With your assigned project group, write a <b>business letter</b> explaining your group’s
    decision for your <b>formal report project</b>. This letter must be in <b>standard business
     letter format</b>, as covered in our correspondence lesson. Be sure to first read the
    assignment description of the formal report project so you know the requirements and banned
    topics before working on this letter.</p>
   <p>Use these steps to work with your group:<ol id="ol_qw5_kvr_bx">
     <li>Use the <b>Collaborations</b> menu to identify the members in your assigned group, and put
      a plan together to work with each other. We are all working at our own time and pace in this
      online course, so be courteous with one another so one person isn't doing all the work. You
      should reach out to your team <b>immediately</b>. If you are unable to reach a person on your
      team, or if anyone on your team is not participating, let me know as soon as possible so that
      I can help remedy the situation.</li>
     <li>Share documents with your group using whatever means you agree to. Canvas works best with
      Google Drive, through which you can author your document in Google Docs.</li>
     <li>When your group is finished, save the document as a <b>PDF</b> file, and upload it to this
      assignment.</li>
     <li>If I have any issues with or questions about your project, I will message your team to
      resolve them.</li>
    </ol></p>
   <p>Include the following information in the business letter:<ul id="ul_l2k_1ts_bx">
     <li>
      <p>Whether your group is going to write a proposal or recommendation report and why you
       believe it is the appropriate document type for your purpose</p>
     </li>
     <li>
      <p>The subject matter of your proposal or recommendation report (what you are proposing or
       recommending)</p>
     </li>
     <li>
      <p>Why this document type and topic is appropriate for your group (for example, maybe it
       relates to your major or is a subject that interests your group)</p>
     </li>
    </ul></p>
  </example>
 </conbody>
</concept>
