<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="concept_wrz_bxp_rw">
 <title>Screen Readers</title>
 <shortdesc>All teaching materials that include visual content, must be accessible to students with
  visual disabilities.</shortdesc>
 <conbody>
  <p>Browser-based content, such as HTML and PDF files, must be developed in a manner that allows
   automated screen readers to read the content to students with visual disabilities. This applies
   both to content you create and to content you reuse from other resources. Modern screen readers
   can read standard content in an HTML file, which means <xref
    href="../resources/lms.dita#concept_oqy_5xp_rw">Canvas</xref> functionality and content is
   already accessible. However, if you create your own web-based content, you must ensure the markup
   is readable by screen readers. This includes adding meaningful content to "alt" attributes in
   image tags and structuring HTML sections in a manner that provides a logical sequence for reading
   by an automated device. For example, if you were to include a lot of overhead content such as
   links and logos at the top of a web page, it is easy enough for students without visual
   disabilities to just scan past the content. However, an automated screen reader would read all of
   the content to the student, forcing the student to sit through it until getting to the main
   content.</p>
  <p>In addition to ensuring markup is accessible in HTML files, you must also ensure PDF content is
   accessible. Automated screen readers can typically read documents created in Microsoft Word and
   then saved as PDF; however, you must ensure you are using Word's <b>Save as Adobe PDF</b> feature
   as opposed to printing to a PDF source. Word's <b>Save as Adobe PDF</b> feature generates PDFs in
   a manner that allows for automated screen reading.</p>
  <p>Be sure your PDFs are not based on a scanned image or document because the content in the PDF
   will appear to the screen reader as an image. At a minimum, ensure your scanning software
   supports optical character recognition (OCR), and use the OCR feature when scanning documents so
   that the scanning process converts the scanned item to text. This will then allow screen readers
   to read the actual text in the PDF.</p>
  <p>Screencasts and other videos may or may not need support for automated screen readers. If you
   create the video in a manner in which a narrator discusses the content the student would see on
   the screen, then your audio portion of the video would be functioning as the screen reader.
   Again, it is important that you ensure any videos you use from other sources meet these same
   audio requirements.</p>
 </conbody>
</concept>
