<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="concept_kjw_nyp_rw">
 <title>Announcements</title>
 <shortdesc>Announcements allow you to remain in contact with your students and provide them with
  timely updates regarding class activities and issues.</shortdesc>
 <conbody>
  <p><xref href="../resources/lms.dita#concept_oqy_5xp_rw">Canvas</xref> includes an announcements
   feature that allows you to post messages for students. This feature is a particularly useful
   communication tool because students by default receive an email whenever an announcement is
   posted. This functionality allows you to use announcements as a way to send mass emails to your
   students.</p>
  <p>In some cases, you might script announcements based on events you know will occur during the
   semester. For example, you might know that you want to remind students of upcoming deadlines or a
   holiday on which no lesson will be posted. If you script announcements like this ahead of time in
   Canvas, you can set the announcement to become available at a specified date and time.</p>
  <p>While you will use announcements for almost anything you want to discuss with students, you
   should consider using announcements regularly for the following events:<simpletable frame="all"
    relcolwidth="1.0* 3.88*" id="simpletable_xgb_ljk_by">
    <sthead>
     <stentry>Event</stentry>
     <stentry>Purpose</stentry>
    </sthead>
    <strow>
     <stentry>Initial Welcome and Final Goodbye</stentry>
     <stentry>To formally kick off the course, you should post an announcement that becomes
      available a day or two before the semester begins. At the end of the semester, you should post
      one final announcement to bring the class to an official end. These announcements should be in
      addition to the first and last lesson summaries. Since an email is also sent with these
      announcements, you could use them as the welcome and completion emails discussed in the class
       <xref href="../checklists/checklist_class_setup.dita#reference_vgs_mns_bx">setup</xref> and
       <xref href="../checklists/checklist_class_completion.dita#reference_w4z_fkk_by"
       >completion</xref> checklists.</stentry>
    </strow>
    <strow>
     <stentry>Lesson Summaries</stentry>
     <stentry>Although you will post your <xref
       href="../lessons/lesson_descriptions.dita#concept_wk5_lkc_bx">lessons</xref> as <xref
       href="lesson_modules.dita#concept_g4h_hyp_rw">modules</xref> in Canvas, you should also post
      an announcement to introduce each lesson and the main concepts the lesson teaches. Since you
      know when your lessons will be available, you can script a specific announcement that
      corresponds with each lesson and schedule that announcement to become available (and send a
      corresponding email) when the lesson is available.<note type="tip">When timing scripted
       announcements for lessons, be sure to schedule the announcement to post for no earlier than
       when the lesson module becomes available. A useful strategy is to time the announcement for
       10 or 15 minutes after the corresponding lesson's scheduled posting.</note></stentry>
    </strow>
    <strow>
     <stentry>Deadline Reminders</stentry>
     <stentry>Although deadlines are available with each deliverable in Canvas, you should also post
      an announcement as a reminder several hours to a day (depending on the <xref
       href="../schedules/course_schedules.dita#concept_ar5_n1q_rw">semester schedule</xref>) before
      a major deliverable is due. Since you know when your lessons will be available, you can script
      a specific announcement that corresponds with each lesson and schedule that announcement to
      become available (and send a corresponding email) when the lesson is available.<note>While it
       would be impractical to do so for every quiz or exercise, you should consider a reminder for
       tests, workshops, and graded assignments. Also, for the first few lessons, it is wise to post
       reminder announcements for all work (including quizzes and exercises) until students get used
       to the routine of your class schedule.</note></stentry>
    </strow>
    <strow>
     <stentry>Grades and Feedback Completed</stentry>
     <stentry>After posting grades for assignments, you should announce that grades and feedback are
      available. This is also an opportunity to communicate any general comments to the class. For
      example, if there was a common trend that you want to correct, you could address it in the
      announcement and ask students to go back and review the appropriate lesson.</stentry>
    </strow>
   </simpletable></p>
 </conbody>
</concept>
