<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="concept_z4s_mpk_by">
 <title>Example Announcement: First Lesson</title>
 <shortdesc>This example provides a starting template instructors can use for posting an
  announcement for the first lesson, which must include not only the lecture material for the
  current lesson but also important concepts for students to get started in an online class
  environment.</shortdesc>
 <conbody>
  <example>
   <title>Lesson 1: Introduction, Correspondence, and Start Grammar Review</title>
   <p>Welcome to <b>Lesson 1</b>. Before I start, let me remind you that it is important that you
    read and watch all material including emails and announcements. As a virtual class, the only way
    for you to get this information is to read all of it. Sometimes it might seem like a lot of
    reading (such as this first message), but this is part of the format for a virtual class like
    this one.</p>
   <p>After reading this message (perhaps a couple times), you can go ahead to the <b>Modules</b>
    section in Canvas to access <b>Lesson 1: Introduction, Correspondence, and Grammar</b>. The
    first link in that lesson will get you started. This course is asynchronous, meaning you can
    access and work on the material at any time you want after it has been posted.</p>
   <p><b>Dates and Deadlines</b></p>
   <p>There is no actual scheduled time for a “class” other than that I post each lesson module on
     <b>Tuesdays at 2:00 PM (ET)</b>. Of course there are deadlines you must meet, so be sure to pay
    attention to those dates/times. To try to make the deadlines as easy as possible to follow, I
    make all deadlines on <b>Tuesdays at 2:00 PM (ET)</b> (when new lessons are posted). You will
    see these deadlines under your <b>Calendar</b> in Canvas. You will also have exercises
    throughout the semester. While those deadlines are also <b>Tuesdays at 2:00 PM (ET)</b>, some of
    them will require you to contact workgroup teammates much sooner.</p>
   <p><b>Links to Lesson Material</b></p>
   <p>Within each lesson module that I post in Canvas, there will be content and multiple links for
    any or all of the following lesson material:</p>
   <ul id="ul_bpw_wpk_by">
    <li><b>Lecture content:</b> Lectures are usually in a screencast video or PDF document.
     Sometimes there will simply be text explaining how to access the lecture.</li>
    <li><b>Exercises:</b> Most of our lessons have a corresponding exercise posted in the
      <b>Assignments</b> section.</li>
    <li><b>Workshops:</b> For some of the graded writing assignments, there will be a virtual
     workshop in which groups help review one another’s work. For lessons containing a workshop, a
     link is included to the corresponding workshop posting in the <b>Assignments</b> section.</li>
    <li><b>Due next lesson (or soon):</b> This section helps you prepare for the next lesson (or
     upcoming lessons). It includes reading assignments, links to tests and quizzes, upcoming papers
     or projects, and any other relevant information.</li>
   </ul>
   <p>All of these items in a lesson are ordered in the sequence I would use if we were in a
    face-to-face classroom.</p>
   <p><b>Assignments</b></p>
   <p>As you go through the Lesson 1 material, you will learn about the different assignments (such
    as papers, projects, and exercises). Papers, projects, and virtual workshops have specific
    posted deadlines. However, exercises are not posted until the corresponding class lesson and are
    thus not due until the start of the following class (unless I communicate otherwise). Keep in
    mind, though, that some exercises and all workshops are group-based, and your teammates will be
    relying on your timely input. Always be sure to read the details for all exercises, papers,
    projects, and workshops in the <b>Assignments</b> section (there will also be links to them in
    corresponding lessons).</p>
   <p><b>Textbook Readings and Quizzes</b></p>
   <p>Every textbook reading assignment has a corresponding quiz that is due before the lesson in
    which we cover the material. Though you will need to read the initial chapters for this week’s
    lesson, the quizzes for the first few readings won’t actually be due for a couple lessons to
    give you a chance to get situated.</p>
   <p><b>Grammar and Punctuation Tests</b></p>
   <p>There are two tests on punctuation and grammar early in the semester. However, there are no
    other tests, including no final exam.</p>
   <p><b>Our First Technical Writing Genre—Correspondence</b></p>
   <p>In addition to the introduction, Lesson 1 begins with a discussion on correspondence—which
    basically means business letters, memos, and emails. The textbook chapter assigned for this
    lecture does a great job covering this genre. However, don’t take every example in the book
    literally. In my lecture, I discuss the preferred format for business letters. This is an
    important lesson, because we use letters for everything—cover letters for a résumé, letters for
    reports and proposals, and just everyday communication. In fact, many times we send an email as
    a business letter. Another form of correspondence is the memo. We use memos regularly in
    workplace correspondence, which is often times informal.</p>
   <p>In this first lesson we have our first two exercises. The first exercise is to introduce
    ourselves by posting a memo in the <b>Discussions</b> section, and the second exercise is to
    write a business “claim” letter. These exercises will make more sense when you go through the
    lesson.</p>
   <p><b>Grammar and Punctuation Review</b></p>
   <p>Lesson 1 also begins with a grammar and punctuation review that spans a few lessons and
    culminates with the two tests mentioned above. The lectures posted under the <b>Grammar and
     Punctuation Review</b> lesson will help you with your review and with preparing for the
    forthcoming tests. Of course, the reading assignments in the textbook will help as well. </p>
   <p><b>Let’s Get Started</b></p>
   <p>So that’s about it. Go ahead to the <b>Modules</b> section, and let’s get started with the
    semester!</p>
  </example>
 </conbody>
</concept>
