<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="concept_kfx_34k_by">
 <title>Example Announcement: Initial Welcome</title>
 <shortdesc>This example provides a starting template instructors can use for posting an initial
  welcome announcement.</shortdesc>
 <conbody>
  <example><title>An Early Welcome to ENGL 3764: Technical Writing (Online)</title><p>Hello
    everyone. Welcome to ENGL 3764: Technical Writing. On <b>Tuesday 2/19 at 2:00 PM (ET)</b>, I
    will post the first lesson to kick off our course. But for now, I just wanted to touch base to
    make sure everyone will be prepared to start.</p><p>Canvas (VA Tech’s learning management
    system) will be the main source for conducting our online lessons. Every <b>Tuesday at 2:00 PM
     (ET)</b> I will post new lessons. <b>2:00 PM (ET)</b> is the time I found to be fairest for all
    students, since the online format allows for students in different time zones to take the
    course. This is also the time any assigned work is due, so it hopefully should be easy to
    remember. It will be up to you to work through each lesson at your own time and pace. You will,
    of course, have to adhere to the deadlines provided in the syllabus and on the Canvas site. I
    also strongly recommend looking at new lessons as soon as possible because there are some group
    assignments for which you will have to reach out to other members of the class (I will provide
    more information with each assignment). The first lesson on Tuesday will include material that
    walks you through everything.</p><p>Be sure to get the textbook <b>as soon as possible</b>: Mike
     Markel—<i>Practical Strategies for Technical Communication</i> (ISBN-13: 978-1457609404). It
    should already be available through the bookstore. Reading assignments and quizzes <b>will start
     immediately</b>, and you must have the book for them. Quizzes will be in Canvas and are open
    book, but they will have deadlines with no make-ups.</p> For each lesson, we will use a mix of
   media such as texts and recorded screencasts. Work will include regular textbook readings,
   quizzes on the readings, grammar and punctuation tests, lesson-based exercises, written papers
   and projects, and virtual workshops. The syllabus provides a clear breakdown of our schedule and
   is available in Canvas.</example>
 </conbody>
</concept>
