<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="concept_dkb_mrk_by">
 <title>Example Announcement: Standard Lesson</title>
 <shortdesc>This example provides a starting template instructors can use for posting an
  announcement for standard lessons after the semester is underway.</shortdesc>
 <conbody>
  <example>
   <title>Lesson 4: Graphical Aids, Instructions, and Safety Information</title>
   <p>In Lesson 4, we’re going to discuss using graphics. Graphics can include a wide range of items
    such as pictures, charts, line art, and software screen shots. We even consider tables when we
    think and plan for graphics. In this lesson, we will look at general concepts and best practices
    for integrating graphics with documentation. We will also look at strategies and purposes of
    illustrations—such as showing data in charts and helping a user work with software.</p>
   <p>We will also continue exploring and writing more technical writing genres—this lesson we focus
    on instructions and safety information. In addition to the usual lesson content, we will also
    have some hands-on work with instructions. First, we have an exercise on writing instructions.
    As you will see, the exercise sounds pretty simple—write instructions on how to tie a shoelace.
    However, I think you will find when you start writing the steps, that it’s not as easy as it
    sounds. Especially when you strive for no more than seven to nine concise steps (which is what
    most procedures should be) and must assume the audience has never tied a shoelace before. So
    give yourself time for this one, and be sure to follow the concepts in the lesson’s lecture
    content (which includes the textbook content). As always, information for completing the
    exercise is posted with the exercise under <b>Assignments</b>.</p>
   <p>Our second graded paper of the course also focuses on instructions. The final version of this
    paper is due Lesson 8, which means you must have your <b>workshop draft completed by Lesson
     6</b>, when we have Workshop #2. Again, details are posted under <b>Assignments</b> for both
    the paper and the workshop (with links in the lesson).</p>
   <p>While we’re talking about final drafts of graded papers, let me also quickly remind you that
    your Paper 1 final draft is due Lesson 5.</p>
  </example>
 </conbody>
</concept>
