<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="concept_vqp_xyp_rw">
 <title>Lectures</title>
 <shortdesc>A lecture is the method through which instructors teach specific concepts of a given
  topic. When delivered through an online course, lectures are synonymous with
  tutorials.</shortdesc>
 <conbody>
  <p>While the medium through which you deliver a lecture will likely depend on the <xref
        href="../resources/tools_resources.dita#concept_qjg_rxp_rw">resources</xref> you have
      available to create the lecture, it is important to remember that the lecture should be
      dictated based on the needs of the concepts being taught. For example, some elements of
      punctuation and grammar may be easily taught and learned through a written document (delivered
      as a PDF). However, such concepts as rhetorical situation may be better delivered as a <xref
        href="../resources/elearning_dev_program.dita#concept_vnz_jwc_dx">screencast or
      video</xref>. Regardless of the medium, a lecture should be as short as possible (for example,
      a video should be no longer than six minutes) and thus should cover a specific concept within
      a given topic.<note>Your lessons do <b>not</b> have to include only lectures that you create.
        You can integrate written work and videos from other sources if you believe they are
        effective for the material being taught. However, it is important to ensure all material
        (including material from external sources) is <xref
          href="../disabilities/accessibilty_disabilities.dita#concept_ulm_ywp_rw">accessible</xref>
        to students with disabilities.</note></p>
 </conbody>
</concept>
