<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="concept_ugm_5yp_rw">
 <title>Tests and Quizzes</title>
 <shortdesc>While most work in this course will be through writing papers, tests and quizzes serve
  as useful supplements to ensure students are keeping up with conceptual material.</shortdesc>
 <conbody>
  <p><xref href="../resources/lms.dita#concept_oqy_5xp_rw">Canvas</xref> includes a feature for
   creating and administering tests and quizzes. Some types of tests/quizzes to consider for this
   course include:<ul id="ul_zxr_bzk_by">
    <li><b>Chapter quizzes:</b> Quizzes offer a way to ensure that students are reading the assigned
     textbook readings. Consider allowing students to take these as open book quizzes over a
     considerable time period (for example, make each quiz available several days to a week before
     the quiz is due). Offering up to one full point per quiz means the quizzes collectively can
     count for up to 15% of the final grade if you have a quiz for each of 15 textbook
     chapters.</li>
    <li><b>Grammar tests:</b> While students are expected to have learned grammar in their
     prerequisite writing classes, they often times enter this course a bit "rusty" on their grammar
     skills. Having grammar tests forces students to quickly brush up on their grammar before they
     start writing their papers and projects. Consider requiring two tests: one low-stakes test that
     gives students a gauge to determine what they may or may not need to continue reviewing and one
     higher-stakes test that offers a final measure of students' performance.</li>
   </ul><note>Because some students may add to the course late or might otherwise be delayed in
    obtaining the textbook, you should extend the deadlines for chapter quizzes that are assigned
    over the first few lessons. For example, you might assign introductory readings and
    corresponding quizzes that are due over the first two lessons. However, you should consider
    extending the quiz deadlines to the third lesson to give students a chance to obtain the
    textbook and get caught up on the readings.</note></p>
 </conbody>
</concept>
