<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="concept_dny_s53_1y">
 <title>Component Grade Calculations</title>
 <shortdesc>The syllabus should explain grading and policies for each deliverable that students must
  submit.</shortdesc>
 <conbody>
  <p>Under the <xref href="syllabus_grading.dita#concept_nxr_n43_1y">grading section</xref>, you
   should have <b>one subsection for each</b> of the graded deliverables. The information for each
   of these sections might include:<ul id="ul_q1p_hv3_1y">
    <li>Description of the corresponding deliverable(s)</li>
    <li>Explanation of the grading formula used to calculate the grade</li>
    <li>Grade weight against the final grade</li>
    <li>Explanation of grading criteria and due dates</li>
    <li>Any policies on late submissions</li>
    <li>Example of how grading works</li>
   </ul></p>
  <example>
   <title>Example</title>
   <p><b>Projects</b></p>
   <p>Projects are the most extensive assignments, requiring you to work thoroughly through the
    entire technical writing process. There are <b>two</b> projects:</p>
   <ul id="ul_i2j_1w3_1y">
    <li>A formal report (group project), which is a <b>proposal</b> or <b>recommendation report</b>
     (your choice) on a subject your group selects</li>
    <li>A <b>white paper</b> on a subject you know well</li>
   </ul>
   <p> I will provide you with specific information for completing these projects in Canvas.</p>
   <p><u>Scoring Methodology and Policies</u></p>
   <p>
    <simpletable frame="all" relcolwidth="1.0* 2.96*" id="simpletable_yl1_vv3_1y">
     <strow>
      <stentry><b>Scoring Formula</b></stentry>
      <stentry>Point Score = (Numeric Grade of Project) X (Project Grade Weight)</stentry>
     </strow>
     <strow>
      <stentry><b>Grade Weight</b></stentry>
      <stentry><b>30%</b> total (<b>15%</b> for each project)</stentry>
     </strow>
     <strow>
      <stentry><b>Grading Criteria</b></stentry>
      <stentry>Grading is based on the total overall reading experience of the project, considering
       the factors discussed in the <xref
        href="syllabus_policies_grade_feedback.dita#concept_w1x_cx3_1y">Grading and Feedback</xref>
       section.</stentry>
     </strow>
     <strow>
      <stentry><b>Due Dates</b></stentry>
      <stentry>Due dates for projects are specified in the <xref
        href="syllabus_deadlines.dita#concept_rk3_g4b_hx">Writing Assignment Deadlines</xref>
       section and are posted with the corresponding project assignment in Canvas. You will upload
       projects to the corresponding Canvas assignment, which is programmed to stop allowing uploads
       at the exact deadline.</stentry>
     </strow>
     <strow>
      <stentry><b>Late Submissions</b></stentry>
      <stentry>Late submissions are not accepted. You must submit each project by its deadline to
       receive a passing grade for that project. Any late project (even if only by a minute)
       automatically receives a <b>0</b> for a grade.</stentry>
     </strow>
     <strow>
      <stentry><b>Grading Example</b></stentry>
      <stentry>John’s group earns an <b>A-</b> on the formal report. An <b>A-</b> is equivalent to
        <b>92</b>, and the formal report project accounts for <b>15%</b> of the final grade.
       Therefore, John’s point score for this project is <b>13.8</b> (92 grade x .15 weight). Then
       John earns a <b>B+</b> on the white paper. A <b>B+</b> is equivalent to <b>89</b>, and the
       white paper project accounts for <b>15%</b> of the final grade. Therefore, John’s point score
       for the final project is <b>13.4</b> (89 grade x .15 weight, rounded). The total point score
       for projects is <b>27.2</b> (the sum of both point scores). This score is the number that
       gets added to the total point score for John’s final grade.</stentry>
     </strow>
    </simpletable>
   </p>
  </example>
 </conbody>
</concept>
