<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="concept_v11_bm4_1y">
 <title>Online Classes</title>
 <shortdesc>The syllabus should explain policies for how you will conduct the class and post lesson
  materials in an online environment.</shortdesc>
 <conbody>
  <p>The relevant information for policies conducting the online class could be included as a
   subsection to the <xref href="syllabus_policies.dita#concept_f1m_nx3_1y">policies section</xref>
   and should include:<ul id="ul_e55_cz4_1y">
    <li>The days and times you will post new lesson materials</li>
    <li>How students should work in the online class environment</li>
    <li>How groups should interact in an online class environment</li>
   </ul></p>
  <example>
   <title>Example</title>
   <p><b>Online Classes</b></p>
   <p>I will post materials for each lesson on <b>Tuesdays</b> at <b>2:00 PM</b>. If the posting day
    falls on a day when university classes are not in session, I will post the lesson the following
    day. I send an announcement through Canvas for each lesson, and I post each lesson under the
    Canvas <b>Modules</b> menu.</p>
   <p>You will conduct your studies at your own time and pace (within the parameters of our
    deadlines). Most class lessons have multiple components that may include written, audio, and
    video lectures, handouts, assignments, and other related items. I will order and explain each
    component so that you can follow them in their intended sequence for that lesson.</p>
   <p>Some lessons include “in-class” exercises. You have until the start of the following class to
    submit any corresponding in-class exercise, unless I specify otherwise with the exercise. You
    must submit in-class exercises as a <b>PDF document through Scholar</b> unless otherwise
    directed in class.</p>
   <p>For group work, I will assign students to groups and post the groupings in Canvas. It is up to
    each student to contact the other student(s) in the group (through Canvas, email, etc.). To be
    fair to your fellow classmates, make contact with each other as soon as possible after the
    groupings are posted. Notify me as soon as possible if you are unable to contact a classmate
    assigned to your group. If you are constantly unavailable to your fellow classmates for group
    exercises, your class participation factor will suffer, as discussed in the <xref
     href="syllabus_grading.dita#concept_nxr_n43_1y">Grading</xref> section.</p>
  </example>
 </conbody>
</concept>
