<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="concept_dgr_vct_2x">
 <title>Textbooks and Resources</title>
 <shortdesc>Students need to know the textbooks and resources that are required for the course and
  those that are optional.</shortdesc>
 <conbody>
  <p>The relevant information for textbooks and resources includes:<ul id="ul_vxd_lbs_dx">
    <li>Required textbook(s)</li>
    <li>Resources such as websites, applications, and access to the learning management system</li>
    <li>Optional books</li>
   </ul></p>
  <example>
   <title>Example</title>
   <p><b>Textbook and Resources</b></p>
   <p>This course has a required textbook and several required resources.</p>
   <p><u>Required Textbook</u></p>
   <p>Markel, M. (2013). <cite>Practical strategies for technical communication</cite>. Boston, MA:
    Bedford/St. Martin’s. ISBN-13: 978-1457609404.</p>
   <p><u>Required Resources</u></p>
   <p>There are additional resources required for this course:<ul id="ul_rph_k2t_2x">
     <li>This course is conducted through the Canvas learning management system, which you can
      access at: <b>https://canvas.vt.edu</b>.</li>
     <li>Some lessons are conducted through interactive multimedia modules that require Adobe Flash
      to be installed on your computer. You will access these modules through Canvas, which should
      automatically verify that you have the appropriate version of Flash installed.</li>
     <li>Some classes require you to view tutorials on Lynda.com. Lynda.com is available for free to
      Virginia Tech students through <b>http://www.olcs.lt.vt.edu/lynda/</b>.</li>
     <li>To ensure your technical documents are formatted professionally, you must have a
      professional word-processing tool. Since Microsoft Word is the most common tool used in
      professional environments, I recommend it as your primary tool for this course. Alternatively,
      you might choose to use Google Docs, which provides content formatting features and allows for
      online collaboration with others. You will be required to submit most of your work as
       <b>PDF</b> files, which both tools can manage for you.</li>
    </ul></p>
   <p><u>Optional Book</u></p>
   <p>In addition to the required textbook and resources, I also recommend the latest copy of your
    favorite grammar book or similar writing reference, such as <cite>A Writer’s Reference</cite> by
    Diana Hacker.</p>
  </example>
 </conbody>
</concept>
