<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="concept_rdd_dds_dx">
 <title>Accelerated Session Statement</title>
 <shortdesc>If the class is conducted during an accelerated summer or winter session, the syllabus
  should include a statement about the intensity of an accelerated writing course.</shortdesc>
 <conbody>
  <p>The relevant information for an accelerated <xref
    href="../schedules/summer_session.dita#concept_r31_pjk_sw">summer</xref> or <xref
    href="../schedules/winter_session.dita#concept_u5b_sjk_sw">winter</xref> session should be
   included as a subsection to the <xref href="syllabus_overview.dita#concept_yqk_dbs_dx">overview
    section</xref> and should include:<ul id="ul_xt3_lds_dx">
    <li>A statement about the intensity of an accelerated writing course</li>
    <li>The time they should be prepared to allocate toward taking such a class</li>
   </ul></p>
  <example>
   <title>Example (Summer Session)</title>
   <p><b>Special Note About the Summer Session</b></p>
   <p>The summer session version of this course is intense. To uphold the integrity of the Technical
    Writing course and ensure students receive the instruction they deserve, we cover the same
    content and have the same assignments as the courses conducted during standard semesters. This
    condensed scheduling means we cover a 15-week semester in only 6 short weeks—we have two to
    three class lessons per week, and each of those class lessons represents over two weeks of a
    standard semester. You must ensure you have a large amount of time every day not only for the
    classwork but also for the additional hours of homework, tests, quizzes, and assignments.
    Missing a class lesson is simply not an option to be successful in this version of the course.
    This statement is not intended to scare you away from the course but to prepare you for its
    intense workload.</p>
  </example>
  <example>
   <title>Example (Winter Session)</title>
   <p><b>Special Note About the Winter Session</b></p>
   <p>The winter session version of this course is intense. To uphold the integrity of the Technical
    Writing course and ensure students receive the instruction they deserve, we cover the same
    content and have the same assignments as the courses conducted during standard semesters. Each
    class in the winter session represents at least one week of a standard semester, and we have a
    class every weekday of the session. This condensed scheduling means that months of work are
    covered in a few short weeks. You must ensure you have a large amount of time every day not only
    for the three plus hours of classwork, but also for the additional hours of homework, quizzes,
    workshops, and assignments. Missing a class lesson is simply not an option to be successful in
    this version of the course. This statement is not intended to scare you away from the course but
    to prepare you for its intense workload.</p>
  </example>
 </conbody>
</concept>
