<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="concept_e3k_vmb_hx">
 <title>Student Perceptions of Teaching</title>
 <shortdesc>Students should know they will have an opportunity to provide feedback on the class and
  instructor when the semester comes to an end.</shortdesc>
 <conbody>
  <p>The relevant information for the student feedback discussion includes:<ul id="ul_vtw_cnb_hx">
    <li>A statement that students will have the opportunity to provide an evaluation and that they
     should keep track of the things that work or don't work throughout the semester</li>
    <li>A statement that evaluations are performed through Student Perceptions of Teaching
     (SPOT)</li>
    <li>A reminder that students should also feel comfortable approaching the instructor about any
     concerns throughout the semester instead of waiting for SPOT evaluations</li>
   </ul></p>
  <example>
   <title>Example</title>
   <p><b>Student Perceptions of Teaching</b></p>
   <p>Though we will conduct course evaluations at the end of the course, I would like to start
    discussing Student Perceptions of Teaching (SPOT) now. My goal is to continually improve this
    course, including myself as its teacher. The only way I can be successful with this goal is to
    receive honest feedback from you, the student taking this course. When we near the end of the
    course, I will remind you about SPOT and provide more information for completing evaluations. In
    the meantime, I encourage you to make note of any ideas for improvement as you think of them
    over the duration of the course. Likewise, if you think something is particularly effective, it
    is worth noting so that I make sure I keep it in future curricula. Of course, you should also
    feel free to bring suggestions directly to me during the semester.</p>
  </example>
 </conbody>
</concept>
