<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="concept_scv_hm4_1y">
 <title>Schedule</title>
 <shortdesc>The syllabus should include a comprehensive schedule that explains the date and topics
  for each lesson.</shortdesc>
 <conbody>
  <p>
   <note>You should also consider using a <xref
     href="../quickrefs/quick_refs.dita#concept_umd_y1q_rw">quick reference schedule</xref> as a
    separate reference document for students in addition to the comprehensive schedule you include
    in your syllabus.</note>
  </p>
  <p>The relevant information for the schedule includes:<ul id="ul_drb_z43_1y">
    <li>A general explanation on how the schedule works</li>
    <li>A breakdown of the dates and topics for each lesson in the course</li>
   </ul></p>
  <example><title>Example</title><p><b>Schedule</b></p><p>The schedule in this section highlights
    the preparation, readings, quizzes/tests, topics, and work due for each class lesson of the
    semester. You can also keep an eye on upcoming project, paper, and test deadlines by referring
    to the <xref href="syllabus_deadlines.dita#concept_rk3_g4b_hx">Writing Assignment
     Deadlines</xref> section. Exercises are considered part of the classwork and are thus not
    listed here as deadlines.</p> So that class lessons are meaningful, and so that you will have
   thoughts or questions to contribute, you must complete the corresponding preparation, readings,
   and quizzes <b>before</b> the class. These items are listed under <b>Due</b> for the
   corresponding class. Always look at due items well in advance of the lesson to give yourself
   adequate time to prepare and take quizzes prior to that lesson.</example>
 </conbody>
</concept>
