<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="concept_w1x_cx3_1y">
 <title>Grading and Feedback</title>
 <shortdesc>The syllabus should provide a rubric or a set of guidelines that otherwise explain the
    criteria for grading assignments.</shortdesc>
 <conbody>
  <p>The relevant information for policies on grading and feedback could be included as a subsection
   to the <xref href="syllabus_policies_assignments.dita#concept_vx4_qk4_1y">assignments
    subsection</xref> (in the <xref href="syllabus_policies.dita#concept_f1m_nx3_1y">policies
    section</xref>) and includes:<ul id="ul_ofq_qd4_1y">
    <li>A summary that highlights the primary characteristics you are looking for in students'
     writing</li>
    <li>How you will return grades and feedback for assignments</li>
    <li>A rubric or grading guidelines that explain properties that yield specific grades</li>
   </ul></p>
  <example>
   <title>Example</title>
   <p><b>Grading and Feedback</b></p>
   <p>As you will discover in this course, no formula exists that can be applied to a technical
    document to determine its quality. For example, a technical document could have useful and
    accurate content, but it would be all for naught if the document were riddled with numerous
    grammatical errors and typos that made it too distracting to read. Therefore, grades for papers
    and projects are based on the total overall reading experience, considering the following
    factors (in no specific order):</p>
   <ul id="ul_h2s_xx4_1y">
    <li>Substance and conventions of the genre based on class lessons and textbook readings</li>
    <li>Required content as specified in the assignment description</li>
    <li>Grammar, spelling, and typographical errors</li>
    <li>Quality of writing and appropriate use of lists, tables, and other content structures</li>
    <li>Appropriateness to the document’s applicable audience</li>
    <li>Information design and flow of prose/exposition, including use of headings and
     subheadings</li>
    <li>Professional tone</li>
    <li>Page and graphic design, images, and other graphical aids</li>
   </ul>
   <p>Just as you submit projects and papers electronically, I will return grades, corrections, and
    notes on them electronically unless I specify otherwise in class.</p>
   <p><u>Grading Guidelines</u></p>
   <p>The following grading guidelines can help you understand the qualitative properties of
    documents against their corresponding grade range:<simpletable frame="all"
     relcolwidth="1.0* 5.9*" id="simpletable_asv_2y4_1y">
     <sthead>
      <stentry>Grade Range</stentry>
      <stentry>Document Properties</stentry>
     </sthead>
     <strow>
      <stentry>A (90-100)</stentry>
      <stentry><p>The document is <b>great to outstanding</b>, given the following
        properties:</p><ul id="ul_lyh_jy4_1y">
        <li>As a whole, the document demonstrates your creativity and mastery of the objectives and
         material, and it meets or exceeds the assignment requirements.</li>
        <li>Tone, content, design, and organization are consistent and ideally suited for the
         audience and purpose.</li>
        <li>There are no typographical errors, such as (but not limited to) missing words, repeating
         words, obvious spelling errors and transpositions, and obviously missed punctuation (for
         example, no period at the end of a sentence).</li>
        <li>There are minimal errors in grammar, mechanics, or formatting.</li>
        <li>To be outstanding (an <b>A+</b> as opposed to an <b>A</b> or <b>A-</b>), the document
         must be completely error free.</li>
       </ul> In a professional work environment, your supervisor would feel confident sending out
       the document as is.</stentry>
     </strow>
     <strow>
      <stentry>B (80-89)</stentry>
      <stentry><p>The document is <b>good to very good</b>, given the following properties:</p><ul
        id="ul_btw_jy4_1y">
        <li>As a whole, the document demonstrates your understanding of the objectives and material
         as well as your ability to use templates and patterns effectively. It meets the assignment
         requirements.</li>
        <li>Tone, content, design, and organization are appropriate for the audience and purpose.
         There may be a minor and easily correctable error or inconsistency.</li>
        <li>There may be a few minor and easily correctable typographical errors or errors in
         grammar, mechanics, or formatting.</li>
       </ul> In a professional work environment, your supervisor would ask you to make a few changes
       before you send out the document.</stentry>
     </strow>
     <strow>
      <stentry>C (70-79)</stentry>
      <stentry><p>The document is <b>fair to adequate</b>, given the following properties:</p><ul
        id="ul_tx3_ky4_1y">
        <li>As a whole, the document indicates that you understand some, but not all, of the
         objectives and material. It meets most of the assignment requirements.</li>
        <li>Most, but not all, elements of tone, content, design, and organization are appropriate
         for the audience and purpose. There might be inconsistencies that undermine the cohesion of
         the document.</li>
        <li>Typographical errors or errors in grammar, mechanics, or formatting are distracting and
         unprofessional, but they do not render the document unreadable.</li>
       </ul> In a professional work environment, your supervisor would want to review your changes
       before sending out the document.</stentry>
     </strow>
     <strow>
      <stentry>D (60-69)</stentry>
      <stentry><p>The document is <b>poor</b>, given any of the following properties:</p><ul
        id="ul_xx5_ky4_1y">
        <li>The document does not reflect your understanding of the objectives or material. It meets
         only some of the assignment requirements.</li>
        <li>There is at least one major flaw in tone, content, design, or organization that makes
         the document ineffective as a whole.</li>
        <li>There is one or more major or critical typographical error or error in grammar,
         mechanics, or formatting.</li>
       </ul> In a professional work environment, your supervisor would question your ability to work
       on this project.</stentry>
     </strow>
     <strow>
      <stentry>F (0)</stentry>
      <stentry><p>The document is <b>unacceptable</b>, given any of the following properties:</p><ul
        id="ul_ok3_ly4_1y">
        <li>The document does not reflect your understanding of the objectives or material, and it
         does not meet the assignment requirements.</li>
        <li>The document does not demonstrate your ability to write adequate and original
         content.</li>
        <li>The tone, content, design, and/or organization are inappropriate for the audience and
         purpose.</li>
        <li>Typographical errors or errors in grammar, mechanics, or formatting affect the reader’s
         ability to understand the document.</li>
       </ul> In a professional work environment, your supervisor would question your ability to do
       your job.</stentry>
     </strow>
    </simpletable></p>
  </example>
 </conbody>
</concept>
