<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="concept_nxr_n43_1y">
 <title>Grading</title>
 <shortdesc>The syllabus should explain how grading works for the required course
  deliverables.</shortdesc>
 <conbody>
  <p>The relevant information for grading includes:<ul id="ul_drb_z43_1y">
    <li>A breakdown of deliverables for the course</li>
    <li>How grading applies to each of the deliverables</li>
   </ul></p>
  <example>
   <title>Example</title>
   <p><b>Grading</b></p>
   <p>You can track your grades at any time in Scholar. Grading for this course is based on the
    following components:</p>
   <p>
    <ul id="ul_oh5_mp3_1y">
     <li><b>Projects</b> (2 of them) account for <b>30%</b> of your grade (<b>15%</b> each).</li>
     <li><b>Papers</b> (3 of them) account for <b>15%</b> of your grade (<b>5%</b> each).</li>
     <li>One <b>oral presentation</b> (recorded and delivered digitally) accounts for <b>10%</b> of
      your grade.</li>
     <li><b>Tests</b> (2 of them on punctuation and grammar) account for <b>10%</b> (total) of your
      grade.</li>
     <li><b>Quizzes</b> (15 of them, open book) account for <b>15%</b> of your grade (<b>1%</b>
      each).</li>
     <li><b>Exercises</b> (approximately 8–12 of them), <b>professionalism</b>, and
       <b>participation</b> account for <b>10%</b> of your grade.</li>
     <li><b>Virtual workshops</b> (3 of them) account for <b>10%</b> of your grade.</li>
    </ul>
   </p>
   <p>As you can see, no one component alone can give you a passing grade. All components are
    important and carry enough weight to affect your final grade. Your <b>final grade</b> is the
     <b>sum total of the point scores</b> calculated from the grades of all components.</p>
  </example>
 </conbody>
</concept>
