<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="concept_mkz_wwr_dx">
 <title>Academic Honesty</title>
 <shortdesc>Students must understand that the class requires that they abide by the Virginia Tech
  honor code.</shortdesc>
 <conbody>
  <note type="important">This is required content for your syllabus. The included example suffices
   for the content required in your syllabus.</note>
  <p>The relevant information for the honor code could be included as a subsection to the <xref
    href="syllabus_policies.dita#concept_f1m_nx3_1y">policies section</xref> and includes:<ul
    id="ul_v22_bbl_sw">
    <li>A statement that students must abide by the honor code</li>
    <li>A reminder of the undergraduate honor code pledge they must abide by</li>
    <li>The website URL where students can read more information about the honor code</li>
   </ul></p>
  <example><title>Example</title><p><b>Academic Honesty</b></p><p>The Undergraduate Honor Code
    pledge that each member of the university community agrees to abide by states:</p><p><q>As a
     Hokie, I will conduct myself with honor and integrity at all times. I will not lie, cheat, or
     steal, nor will I accept the actions of those who do.</q></p><p>Students enrolled in this
    course are responsible for abiding by the Honor Code. A student who has doubts about how the
    Honor Code applies to any assignment is responsible for obtaining specific guidance from the
    course instructor before submitting the assignment for evaluation. Ignorance of the rules does
    not exclude any member of the University community from the requirements and expectations of the
    Honor Code.</p> For additional information about the Honor Code, please visit:
    <b>honorsystem.vt.edu</b>.</example>
 </conbody>
</concept>
