<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="concept_h5q_2bs_dx">
 <title>Objectives</title>
 <shortdesc>The syllabus should provide the learning objectives for the course.</shortdesc>
 <conbody>
  <p>The relevant information for the overview includes:<ul id="ul_akl_mcs_dx">
    <li>The instructor's learning objectives, which should reflect the <xref
      href="../about/about_course_objectives.dita#concept_mnt_ndp_rw">objectives from the formal
      course description</xref></li>
   </ul></p>
  <example>
   <title>Example</title>
   <p><b>Objectives</b></p>
   <p>At the end of this course, you will be able to:</p>
   <p>
    <ul>
     <li>Analyze the rhetorical situation, including the problem that creates the need for written
      communication.</li>
     <li>Analyze the audience or users of the written communication, including knowledge,
      experience, and work environment; consider needs of global audiences and people with
      disabilities.</li>
     <li>Conduct research appropriate to workplace problem solving, such as literature review,
      evaluation of online resources, interview, and site inspection.</li>
     <li>Interpret research findings with understanding of ethical and human implications.</li>
     <li>Select and apply appropriate ways of ordering information for specific effects, including
      hierarchical, chronological, and spatial arrangements.</li>
     <li>Use conventions of various workplace genres, such as proposals, instructions,
      correspondence, reports, and slide decks, with understanding of how the genre conventions can
      be used as heuristics and as principles of arrangement.</li>
     <li>Design visual representations of quantitative information to enhance accurate
      interpretation.</li>
     <li>Manage writing projects by planning and completing tasks according to a schedule.</li>
     <li>Collaborate with classmates in planning, researching, writing, revising, and presenting
      information.</li>
     <li>Write accurately and clearly.</li>
     <li>Apply principles of effective visual design for print and electronic presentation.</li>
     <li>Present technical information orally.</li>
    </ul>
   </p>
  </example>
 </conbody>
</concept>
