<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="concept_yqk_dbs_dx">
 <title>Overview</title>
 <shortdesc>The syllabus should provide an expanded description of the course.</shortdesc>
 <conbody>
  <p>The relevant information for the overview includes:<ul id="ul_vxd_lbs_dx">
    <li>The instructor's own description of the course, which may be the same as the <xref
      href="../about/about_course_reg_descr.dita#concept_pfj_3cp_rw">course registration
      description</xref></li>
   </ul></p>
  <p>
   <note>If the class is conducted during an accelerated <xref
     href="../schedules/summer_session.dita#concept_r31_pjk_sw">summer</xref> or <xref
     href="../schedules/winter_session.dita#concept_u5b_sjk_sw">winter</xref> session, the overview
    should include a <xref href="syllabus_overview_accelerated.dita#concept_rdd_dds_dx">subsection
     with a statement about the intensity of an accelerated writing course</xref></note>
  </p>
  <example>
   <title>Example</title>
   <p><b>Overview</b></p>
   <p>Technical writing encompasses a wide range of writing genres including reports, proposals,
    correspondence (memos and letters), user documentation (instructions), and many others. The
    distribution media for these documents are equally vast including print, email, web (including
    different device types), and more.</p>
   <p>This course will introduce you to these genres and distribution media and give you the
    opportunity to explore and write documents of different genres in a constructive environment.
    You will learn how to assess your audience, plan technical writing projects, research subject
    matter, structure and organize content, write document drafts, edit existing content, and
    prepare final documents.</p>
   <p>Classes will include a mixture of lecture, examples, workshops, and exercises to help you
    understand the craft and allow you to practice your newly acquired technical writing skills.
    Smaller exercises will help you build specific skills that you can directly apply to your larger
    writing projects, which will include writing technical documents of different genres.</p>
   <p>This is a writing-intensive course that will require you to write every day, but you will
    leave the course feeling confident in your writing skills and in your ability to write within
    technical and professional environments.</p>
  </example>
 </conbody>
</concept>
