<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="concept_png_yk4_1y">
 <title>Deadlines</title>
 <shortdesc>The syllabus should explain your policies on deadlines and the time zone for those
  deadlines in case students are in a different geographic location.</shortdesc>
 <conbody>
  <p>The relevant information for policies on assignment deadlines could be included as a subsection
   to the <xref href="syllabus_policies_assignments.dita#concept_vx4_qk4_1y">assignments
    subsection</xref> (in the <xref href="syllabus_policies.dita#concept_f1m_nx3_1y">policies
    section</xref>) and includes:<ul id="ul_vvp_vw4_1y">
    <li>A statement that explains your policies on deadlines for assignments</li>
    <li>The time zone you use for deadlines</li>
    <li>What to do if the <xref href="../resources/lms.dita#concept_oqy_5xp_rw">learning management
      system</xref> is down, thus preventing assignment uploads</li>
   </ul></p>
  <example>
   <title>Example</title>
   <p><b>Deadlines</b></p>
   <p>The <xref href="syllabus_deadlines.dita#concept_rk3_g4b_hx">Writing Assignment
     Deadlines</xref> section contains the date and time each writing assignment is due (including
    workshops). Deadlines for tests and quizzes are posted with each test/quiz in Canvas and are
    also listed with their corresponding assignment due dates in the <xref
     href="syllabus_schedule.dita#concept_scv_hm4_1y">Schedule</xref> section. Deadlines for
    exercises are due by the deadline posted within the corresponding exercise assignment in
    Canvas.</p>
   <p>Canvas stops allowing assignment uploads at the deadline for the assignment. All deadline date
    and times are based on the <b>eastern time zone</b>. Do not wait until the last minute to submit
    your assignment, as you never know when a slow network connection or other problem might cause
    your submission to miss the deadline.</p>
   <p>If you have a problem accessing Canvas, I will allow you to email the assignment to me. In
    such a case, I will use the time I receive your email to determine whether or not an assignment
    has met its deadline.</p>
   <p><b>I strongly encourage you to submit your assignments early. <u>Do not wait</u> until the
     deadline.</b></p>
  </example>
 </conbody>
</concept>
